# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package B (Improve tooling and processes to support Zero Trust Builds of FreeBSD) Update \- December 2024

| Reporting Period | 01 DEC 2024 to 31 DEC 2024 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

We continued engaging the FreeBSD Project’s management teams in the process of scoping the work that they want to see implemented under Work Package B. 

Teams engaged are: 

**FreeBSD Core Team**  
The FreeBSD Core Team constitutes the project’s "Board of Directors", responsible for deciding the project’s overall goals and direction as well as managing specific areas of the FreeBSD project landscape. The Core Team is elected by the active developers in the project.

**Release Engineering Team**  
The Release Engineering Team is responsible for setting and publishing release schedules for official project releases of FreeBSD, announcing code freezes and maintaining releng/\* branches, among other things. The release engineering team charter describes the duties and responsibilities of the Release Engineering Team in greater detail.

**Security Team**  
The FreeBSD Security Team (headed by the Security Officer) is responsible for keeping the community aware of bugs, exploits and security risks affecting the FreeBSD src and ports trees, and to promote and distribute information needed to safely run FreeBSD systems. Furthermore, it is responsible for resolving software bugs affecting the security of FreeBSD and issuing security advisories. The FreeBSD Security Officer Charter describes the duties and responsibilities of the Security Officer in greater detail.

**Source Manager Team**  
The Source Manager Team is a group of FreeBSD developers charged with overseeing the development of the FreeBSD base system source tree and products generated from the source tree. The goal of this team is providing base system artifacts and releases that are functional, stable, and performant. The base system is built from the src git repository and includes the kernel, boot loader, and userland.

## Project Progress

The scope is now finalized and resourcing is underway. Project management cadences are in place.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

Getting suitable contractors is challenging because it requires a niche understanding of the FreeBSD project.
