# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package B (Improve tooling and processes to support Zero Trust Builds of FreeBSD) Update \- September 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 SEPTEMBER 2025 to 30 SEPTEMBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Community engagement in September remains similar to August, with Foundation contractors and staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review (in both directions).

We will be sharing details with the community about the completed no-root builds work in the coming weeks.

## Project Progress

As reported last month, one part of our work is completed:

* Standardize all source release build cases using non-root for the creation of release artifacts (ISO & memstick). This will be announced once the other release artifacts are also able to be built without root privileges (specifically *Build cloud VM images as non-root* mentioned below).  
* Src to build reproducibly.  
  * The work is now completed and has been tested in a range of use cases including when creating a range of VM image formats, cloudware images, and cross-compilation for tier 1 architecture (ARM64, AMD64). This means that the ability to build FreeBSD reproducibly will be more accessible to users who have diverse setups for building FreeBSD.   
  * Relevant code reviews:  
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49488](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49488)  
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49531](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49531)  
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49602](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49602)   
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49601](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49601)   
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49531](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49531)   
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49492](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49492) 

Work newly completed this month:

* Build cloud VM images as non-root.  
  * VM images for cloud use can now be built without needing root privilege.

Work is ongoing for: 

* Ports to build reproducibly.  
  * This work is code complete and now in review.  
* *NOTE: This is still in queue for review with our community stakeholder. He is currently engaged with working on the upcoming FreeBSD 15.0 release which has slowed things down.* Formalize and document `make world` and `release.sh` in the context of providing joined-up documentation for a user who wants to understand reproducible builds and directions on how to do it.  (Some documentation already exists but is not necessarily up to date.)  
  * This is finalized and has been added to a new repository in the FreeBSD GitHub Organization. It is waiting for final review from the community stakeholder.


Work has started on:

* CI to verify reproducibility.  
  * This is now in development, with the planned implementation of some additional tests in precommit CI scripts that create builds under identical conditions. This approach was chosen so that we can avoid hitting the problem of timestamps in the build process creating differences in the compiled binaries (there was no functional way to remove timestamps once they were included as tools like `libfaketime` don't work in FreeBSD jails).  
* Address dependencies  
  * Enable bhyve (hypervisor) to operate virtual machines without requiring elevated privileges. NOTE: The original line item 'Address Dependencies' was relatively loosely scoped. Following the successful completion of no-root infrastructure for building VM images and release artifacts, we've identified an opportunity to extend this unprivileged approach to bhyve itself, allowing VMs to be operated without root access.  
  * Adding *create pkgbase VM and cloud images*. It’s now more practical to create pkgbase-based VM and cloud images without requiring elevated privileges, using the same secure, unprivileged methods developed for other release artifacts. This allows pkgbase images which assemble the base system from individual packages rather than a monolithic installation to be built safely in automated and containerized environments alongside ISOs and other release formats.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

Some of our work is getting held up in the review process because the FreeBSD project is currently focused on creating FreeBSD 15.0 which is released in December (the same community stakeholders are involved in both). This doesn’t stop us from continuing development work as such, but if changes are reviewed after December the Foundation may have to cover the resource to implement any changes the reviewers request. 