# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package B (Improve tooling and processes to support Zero Trust Builds of FreeBSD) Update \- February 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 FEB 2025 to 28 FEB 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Community engagement in February has been primarily in the development process. This means that our contract/staff developers have been engaging with the volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We also have a nominated community representative in our project meetings, who is closely engaged with the paid workers to ensure that the changes are wanted, needed, and implemented in an appropriate manner. 

Our approach to co-scoping the details of the work with the community stakeholders, and including them in the project process has created a sense of co-ownership that has helped to create a collaborative environment for the Foundation to produce and manage the work. 

## Project Progress

Work is ongoing on 3 of our highest priority work items for this package:

* Standardize all source release build cases using no-root for creation of release artifacts.  
  * Much of the foundational work has been completed.  
* Formalize and document make world and release.sh in the context of providing joined-up documentation for a user who wants to understand  reproducible builds and directions on how to do it.  (Some documentation already exists but is not necessarily up to date.)  
  * This is partially complete.  
* Src to build reproducibly.  
  * CI tests are being created to support reproducible builds.  
  * We also worked with the [Reproducible-Builds.org](http://Reproducible-Builds.org) folks (who are funded by STA) to restore the FreeBSD reproducible CI \- results are visible here: [https://tests.reproducible-builds.org/freebsd/freebsd.html](https://tests.reproducible-builds.org/freebsd/freebsd.html)  
      
    Reproducible-builds.org February report:  
    [https://reproducible-builds.org/reports/2025-02/](https://reproducible-builds.org/reports/2025-02/)  
      
    Excerpts from the report:

    *Thanks to an investment from the Sovereign Tech Agency, the FreeBSD project’s work on unprivileged and reproducible builds continued this month. Notable fixes include:*

    *pkg (hash ordering)*

    *makefs (source filesystem inode number leakage)*

    *FreeBSD base system packages (timestamp)*


The work package is about 55% resourced in February. As mentioned in the previous report, making changes to the release process for FreeBSD is quite a specialized field and we have spent a good deal of time in the community looking for people with the skills and availability to tackle the scope. 

We are still intending to engage [Klara Systems](https://klarasystems.com/), a specialist agency that delivers FreeBSD work for companies such as Netflix, to provide the remaining 45% resource. We had hoped that they would be able to start work in February, but due to challenges this date had to be pushed back and we now have a contract in place for them to start work in March. 

Despite the resourcing gap, additional hours this month have been covered by existing project staff due to some stalled work in Work Package C which created some flexibility to progress on Work Package B.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

Now that we have the contract with Klara Systems signed, the project risk has reduced. Some of the work that we have planned will need to be submitted to the FreeBSD Project with careful timing so that it does not conflict with the release process of FreeBSD 15.0 which begins in September for a December release date. There is a possibility that this could affect project timing, and so we need to decide on the mitigation required.
