
# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package B (Improve tooling and processes to support Zero Trust Builds of FreeBSD) Update \- November 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 NOVEMBER 2025 to 30 NOVEMBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Community engagement in November remains similar to October, with Foundation contractors and staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review (in both directions).

## Project Progress

As reported last month, one part of our work is completed:

* Standardize all source release build cases using non-root for the creation of release artifacts (ISO & memstick). This will be announced once the other release artifacts are also able to be built without root privileges (specifically *Build cloud VM images as non-root* mentioned below).  
* Src to build reproducibly.  
  * The work is now completed and has been tested in a range of use cases including when creating a range of VM image formats, cloudware images, and cross-compilation for tier 1 architecture (ARM64, AMD64). This means that the ability to build FreeBSD reproducibly will be more accessible to users who have diverse setups for building FreeBSD.   
  * Relevant code reviews:  
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49488](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49488)  
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49531](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49531)  
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49602](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49602)   
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49601](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49601)   
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49531](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49531)   
    * Closed: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49492](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D49492)   
* Build cloud VM images as non-root.  
  * VM images for cloud use can now be built without needing root privilege.  
* Address dependencies  
  * Adding *create pkgbase VM and cloud images*. It’s now more practical to create pkgbase-based VM and cloud images without requiring elevated privileges, using the same secure, unprivileged methods developed for other release artifacts. This allows pkgbase images which assemble the base system from individual packages rather than a monolithic installation to be built safely in automated and containerized environments alongside ISOs and other release formats. This is now available in FreeBSD 15.0 Alpha (pre-release) build.   
    

Work newly completed this month:

* Address dependencies  
  * Now we have no-root builds, we have been able to do the work to create pkgbase-based VM and cloud images without requiring elevated privileges as we have done for other release artifacts. pkgbase images can now be built safely in automated and containerized environments alongside ISOs and other release formats. This is now available in FreeBSD 15.0 Alpha (pre-release) build. Bugs have been found and fixed.

Work is ongoing for: 

* Ports to build reproducibly.  
  * This work is code complete and now in review. This will be picked up again in December as our key developer is OOO in November.  
* Formalize and document `make world` and `release.sh` in the context of providing joined-up documentation for a user who wants to understand reproducible builds and directions on how to do it.  (Some documentation already exists but is not necessarily up to date.)  
  * There is no change on this, it is being reallocated to a new developer in December, but as it is in review phase it should not be a problem to complete by the end of Dec.   
* CI to verify reproducibility.  
  * This remains in review, due to limited availability of reviewers. The functionality has been proven to work in a local environment, but needs to be added to the CI pipeline in Jenkins to make it usable and/or a makefile provided to allow others to run it locally.    
* Address dependencies  
  * Enable bhyve (hypervisor) to operate virtual machines without requiring elevated privileges. NOTE: The original line item 'Address Dependencies' was relatively loosely scoped. Following the successful completion of no-root infrastructure for building VM images and release artifacts, we've identified an opportunity to extend this unprivileged approach to bhyve itself, allowing VMs to be operated without root access.  
  * This work remains in progress and on track to complete by the end of the year.  
* Remove privilege from orchestration tooling.  
* We had originally wanted to remove the requirement for root privilege from an orchestration tool called Thermite which manages images created as part of the build process. However, some other work in this work package will provide an alternative route to achieving the same goals in the next 6-12 months and this would make any changes to Thermite effective only in the short term. Therefore, we decided not to do more on this item (the other work mentioned is part of work item “address dependencies”).

## Risks, concerns, and variations

One of our contractors has had to step back from the project and we are in the process of reallocating work. 
