# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package B (Improve tooling and processes to support Zero Trust Builds of FreeBSD) Update \- January 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 JAN 2025 to 31 JAN 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

We wanted to share this work proactively with the community from the start. To this end, we have published a [blog about the work package](https://freebsdfoundation.org/blog/zero-trust-builds-for-freebsd/). 

Making changes to the release process for FreeBSD is quite a specialised field and we have spent a good deal of time in the community looking for people with the skills and availability to tackle the scope that we drafted and agreed with the community in November-December.  

## Project Progress

The work on WPB began, partially resourced, at the start of January as planned. The remainder of the resourcing we intend to meet with [Klara Systems](https://klarasystems.com/), a specialist agency that delivers FreeBSD work for companies such as Netflix. Their reliable availability and rigorous approach to delivering to scope means that the FreeBSD Project and Foundation will have more predictability on the work they are responsible for. Klara will begin work on WPB in February, subject to contract.

Our project management cadences are in place.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

As mentioned, we have had to spend a lot more time in the FreeBSD community and beyond trying to find suitable contractors. Work Package B, and Work Package C both started in January which meant that planning at the end of 2024 coincided with a seasonal slowdown which has meant that getting responses from people has been particularly slow. Additionally, the Foundation has had some staff leave in the last few months, which has increased workloads of remaining staff and created communication gaps which have resulted in oversights. This has also coincided with an increase in time-sensitive project milestones, for example, the [Laptop Support and Usability Project](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/proj-laptop) which is high-profile, has external stakeholders, and draws on the same staff as STA work. 