# Sep 16, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan, Pierre Pronchery, Anne Dickison (Optional), Ed Maste, Warner Losh, Tuukka Pasanen, Deb Goodkin (Optional).

**Attendees**:  Alice Sowerby, Siva Mahadevan, Ed Maste, Tuukka Pasanen.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Evaluate projects/solutions available in the wider ecosystem (to avoid building a whole new solution) e.g. Ariadne's pkgconf proposal.

   * Do we want every package in FreeBSD to have its own licence, or can they be considered to be under the BSD licence? It might be that we would create a single statement that covers multiple subparts, and lists the authors of these in the copyright. For BSD licence, the copyright holder/author has few additional rights, and this may be the same for most of the other licences. For most of FreeBSD code we should be OK. "2 clause BSD with authors as specified in individual files" For the POC/first draft, do the simplest, least granular thing first to get a POC/first draft and then we can get some feedback from the community.  
4. Propose the target solution for SBOM

   * SPDX 3.0 Lite, there isn't very much documentation. Only an example profile. POC/first draft in next couple of week (Sep) to review.  
5. Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).

   * Happening in parallel, who is a good contact to speak to about CI. Li-Wen and Moin will be your best contacts. Look at: https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-ci  
6. Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.

   * Anne spoke with our attorney, who said he could help with the disclaimers. He had the following reply: "I'll need to know how confident you are as to the accuracy of the list of third-party (or OSS) components in the code-base and the applicable licenses. I know it can sometimes be difficult to determine which license applies to a particular piece of code, depending on where it is downloaded and under which use case, etc. I will look at the SBOM template, but it will also be helpful to see the draft SBOM as it's being prepared in order to tie the appropriate disclaimers as needed." Ed: We are providing the tooling. If we wanted to, we could possibly monetize the provision of a warranted version. But, prefer to give something in line with the BSD licence, it is provided without warranty. Perhaps documenting how to determine that the licence/SPDX info is accurate, encourage the community to cleanup/backfill areas. Tuukka: it's on the user to check the licences if it's important to them. Hope to have an example next week or the week after. SPDX provides guidance on how the SBOM should be produced for different use cases. the SbomType is a variable that needs to be set as per: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0.1/model/Software/Vocabularies/SbomType/ We would be using the "build" version.  
7. SBOM artifact on demand

   * Some kind of make target e.g. "make sbom", this will make it much easier to integrate into CI also. Might it also be possible/useful to make the SBOM dependency info available in a more explorable/visual way?  
8. Roll up existing data

   * As per discussion in earlier item.  
9. Record and explain decisions made

   * We are keeping a record of the discussions and decisions being made (in this doc) and we are also engaging on the mailing list about the larger decisions e.g. SPDX  
10. Engage with other similar projects

    * \[No update provided\]