# May 20, 2025

**Invitees**:  Alice Sowerby, Mark Phillips, Pierre Pronchery, Anne Dickison (Optional), Ed Maste, Warner Losh, Tuukka Pasanen, Deb Goodkin (Optional).

**Attendees**: Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen, Pierre Pronchery, Warner Losh, Ed Maste.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Evaluate projects/solutions available in the wider ecosystem (to avoid building a whole new solution) e.g. Ariadne's pkgconf proposal.

   * Are we looking for an SBOM for src, or ports or both? Both. We want to be able to produce SBOM information for the whole system (base, src, and ports). For ports we will approach this from an infrastructure point of view. We will not address meta data quality. Perhaps pick a few ports to show in more detail for the community to know more about the role of the meta data in ports. For src, probably also tooling-led. There is something related in the Alpha-Omega project proposal that Pierre has been scoping. There are perhaps 100 subdirectories for contributed src parts. Meta data in src \- it would be nice if it could be somehow automatically kept up to date so that there doesn't have to be a regular task to update it. Tags in the vendor branch may be machine readable, but not many other places. Debian handles this by using a control file. Could be worth investigating in case we can use something similar. Ed has also seen a solution that uses pkg config files to store information. If we can pick something that is compatible with the majority of components that gives us a head start. Many tools are GPL licence, not BSD. Debian copyright format: https://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/copyright-format/1.0/ What 10 packages could Tuukka use to start building the SBOM and tooling? Perhaps choose the packages that are already in src. Security-relevant or tooling ports e.g. OpenSSH, OpenSSL, GCC, binutils, clang, XZ. For src we don't maintain pkgconf files unless they come in via components. But we could adopt this as a solution.  
4. Propose the target solution for SBOM

   * \[No update provided\]  
5. Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).

   * Tuukka has been looking into who is using SBOM already in industry. Mainly so far, Automotive firms, Electric industry, and Arms Manufacturers. Mainly used for security concerns, not as much for licences.  
6. Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.

   * It's a small subset of users who want SBOMs, and they are for business/mission/life-critical applications. The ability to produce the SBOM will be of great value to people/users who are maintaining a fork and want to create their own SBOM. When we build a default config, we ge the SBOM related to that. If we put that in the release artifacts, we only get one possible variant of the SBOM. When "use flags" are enabled, a different SBOM would be required. How does the SBOM self-identify which configuration was used when it was created?  
7. SBOM artifact on demand

   * \[No update provided\]  
8. Roll up existing data

   * \[No update provided\]  
9. Record and explain decisions made

   * \[No update provided\]  
10. Engage with other similar projects

    * \[No update provided\]

