# Oct 18, 2025

Invitees: Mark Phillips, Anne Dickison, Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Warner Losh, Moin Rahman, Tuukka Pasanen, Siva Mahadevan.

Attendees: Pierre Pronchery,  Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby,  Moin Rahman, Tuukka Pasanen, Siva Mahadevan.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Evaluate projects/solutions available in the wider ecosystem (to avoid building a whole new solution) e.g. Ariadne's pkgconf proposal.  
   * Complete, no more reviewing of other solutions is required.  
4. Propose the target solution for SBOM  
   * POC/first draft progress for base, ports. Base is ready for review, and ports is missing the make file integration. pkgconf pull request for the base SBOM (upstream) was submitted about a week ago, but it's not a very active repo. The maintainer who is the approver seems to be active about weekly.  Maybe Bapt could review it as he is part of that community. Tuukka will ask Bapt in IRC.   
   * Next time: Discuss the format of the ID / URL which will be used for the naming of the SBOMs.  
5. Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).  
   * No updates this month. Once implementation of the POC is complete, we can move to this. Not a big job.   
   * Do we want SBOM per package or one mega SBOM. We don't want one big SBOM for the whole ports tree. We want users to be able to get the SBOM that relates just to the ports that they have installed (merged and deduped).   
6. Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.

   * I have passed this to Anne to share with the attorney   
     For ports: https://github.com/illuusio/vuln-test/blob/main/bin/fv.json-ld  
     For base: https://github.com/illuusio/freebsd-src/blob/pkgconfig-test/pkgconfig/FreeBSD-mkuzip.json  
   * Problem raised by Moin: in ports we have 10s of licences. We don't know if package licence information is accurate because it is taken on trust that what is provided in the porting process is accurate. Not all licence statements in packages conform to SPDX standards, so they need to be updated. Moin has been doing some work on changing package licence format \- check with him where that is at.   
   * We have asked that the legal statement will cover this, and will provide no warranty for the accuracy (it's best effort).    
   * The ""make SBOM"" function is the one that will allow the SBOM to be created in ports. Submit it to Phabricator.  https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53317   
   * LUA logging module \- should this be a separate pull request? https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53316"  
7. SBOM artifact on demand  
   * Make SBOM is also used to achieve this.  
8. Roll up existing data  
   * Need to get some example packages to use to create this tooling, or extend Moin's tooling to make it use SPDX headers. Pierre had some manual tooling to do something similar. Tuukka will look at this next week.  
9. Record and explain decisions made  
   * We are keeping a record of the discussions and decisions being made (in this doc) and we are also engaging on the mailing list about the larger decisions e.g. SPDX  
10. Engage with other similar projects

    * Already engaging with pkgconf & PURL.

