# Jun 17, 2025

**Invitees**:  Alice Sowerby, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan, Pierre Pronchery, Anne Dickison (Optional), Ed Maste, Warner Losh, Tuukka Pasanen, Deb Goodkin (Optional).

**Attendees**: Alice Sowerby, Siva Mahadevan, Tuukka Pasanen. 

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Evaluate projects/solutions available in the wider ecosystem (to avoid building a whole new solution) e.g. Ariadne's pkgconf proposal.

   * Tuukka proposes that we use https://reuse.software/ standards. We would ask the ports developers to adhere to these standards. Siva asks about the Ariadne proposal for Linux to ask whether this would be suitable for the src tree. For pkgconf we would need to write these files. Who would be able to write and provide these files, that isn't just manual. Reuse and pkgconf are complementary to each other. It should be suitable for using with different programming languages. Every poudriere ports build includes this file .pkg\_deps% and the method of producing this could be useful as it already removes recursive dependencies. It would also be a helpful cross-check for what should be in the SBOM. With Poudrier you can do a "testport" to populate the logs for a single port. ScanCode toolkit. Potentially use https://reuse.software/ for the licensing part  
4. Propose the target solution for SBOM

   * Aiming to have something for next month about how maintainers should provide SBOM information.  
5. Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).

   * What do we want to produce in the CI? Is is required in all CI use cases (if it's only being used for testing, we wouldn't necessarily need an SBOM). For ports it will be part of the makefile system. It will not be very computationally expensive anyway. Poudriere already provides developers with the dependency graph which serves a similar purpose to an SBOM from the developer perspective.  
6. Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.

   * Let's get some clarity on this now to help build the finer requirements for the work that is ongoing. Let's propose a format for the SBOM. We can base it on the SPDX SBOM format. Especially try the SPDX lite spec(https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/SPDX-Lite/) as a starting point.  
7. SBOM artifact on demand

   * Research how 3rd parties want to consume SBOMs. They SPDX 2.2 is the most common/popular standard/format. It's important to know who made it, whether it's a release or CI artifact. Metadata in SPDX already contains this.  
8. Roll up existing data

   * \[No update provided\]  
9. Record and explain decisions made

   * TODO Current proposal: \* Provide pkgconf .pc files (that conform to at least pkgconf 1.9) that encapsulate versioning, dependencies, and SPDX license identifiers in the src tree \* Possibly write flua bindings for pkgconf to help with tooling implementation \* If pkgconf SPDX identifiers are not sufficient, investigate how to tie in to reuse.software tooling (e.g. scancode-toolkit, etc.) stakeholders listed: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w1T\_91gPrFDcjEgAM1xoMIibYaZEbBHI2AAlouMu8qc/edit?tab=t.0\#heading=h.kd2ztib4rlgx  
10. Engage with other similar projects

    * \[No update provided\]