# Nov 18, 2025

Invitees: Mark Phillips, Anne Dickison, Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Warner Losh, Siva Mahadevan, Tuukka Pasanen, Moin Rahman

Attendees: Pierre Pronchery,  Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby,  Siva Mahadevan, Tuukka Pasanen 

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Evaluate projects/solutions available in the wider ecosystem (to avoid building a whole new solution) e.g. Ariadne's pkgconf proposal.  
   * Complete, no more reviewing of other solutions is required.  
4. Propose the target solution for SBOM  
   * Ports \- still discussing how to implement with respect to the packages and ports tree (Bapt, Ed, Tuukka have been discussing offline). Add pkgconf into the base system. It should be OK to have a 1:1 mapping in base system between pkgconf files and packages. Regarding packages and ports tree, include SBOM information in the package make file directory. Get buyin from source community about including a pkgconf file in every package even if it's empty (unless tooling breaks when encountering empty pkgconf files with no functional content). This can be easily tested to find out.   
   * Do we want to get pkgconf files inside the source? Yes, start with Alpha Omega files which are good tests.  
   * Discuss the format of the ID / URL which will be used for the naming of the SBOMs.   
   * Example URL format for referring to a package within the SBOM: https://freebsd.org/git/f72908c/Package/example   
   * It doesn't actually have to be a real "place" but it probably would be a good idea. Could we include the namespace "SBOM" within the URL as well.   
   * Let's use https://pkg.freebsd.org/SBOM/abc and host the content at pkg which already has a suitable directory structure for hosting these resources. Check with clusteradm@ about this solution.   
   * pkgconf upstream PR is now merged.  
5. Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).  
   * Same as last time. Still to do.  
6. Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.

   * From the attorney, I have asked for guidance on whether we need the optional section:  
     *“The sample SBOMs from your team are in json files, which I understand is fairly common.  They are machine readable lists with numerous hyperlink references.*   
     *“-I don’t see a lot of plain text, so I am wondering where your team will include the disclaimer so that it is visible.  I did a quick search and it does appear that a disclaimer can be added as a new field or section within the SBOM file.*   
     *“If that is not possible in the SBOM tool your team is using, you may need to provide a separate document that contains the disclaimer that is accessible alongside the SBOM file.*   
     *“Here is my proposed language for the disclaimer:*  
     *“Disclaimer*  
     *“The \[FreeBSD software\] and this Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) are provided to users “AS IS” and without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied, and the FreeBSD Project and the FreeBSD Foundation specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or noninfringement therefor.  Further, the FreeBSD Project and the FreeBSD Foundation do not warrant, guarantee, or make any representations regarding the use, or the results of the use, of the FreeBSD software, the SBOM or any other written materials in terms of correctness, accuracy, reliability, or otherwise.*  
      *“\[Optional\]*  
     *“Limitation of Liability*  
     *“in addition, the FreeBSD Project and the FreeBSD Foundation shall not be responsible or liable with respect to any use of the \[FreeBSD software\] or SBOM or any documentation related thereto under any contract, negligence, strict liability or other theory for:  (i) for loss or inaccuracy of data or cost of procurement of substitute goods, services or technology; (ii) any indirect, incidental or consequential damages including, but not limited to, loss of profits; or (iii) any matter beyond their reasonable control.*  
     *“Please let me know if you have any questions.”*  
7. SBOM artifact on demand  
   * For Ports, (if implementation is accepted) then Make SBOM will fulfil this need. For Source, it's already possible with Make SBOM command.  
8. Roll up existing data  
   * Tuukka has been working on this manually, using the Alpha Omega contribs as a test set. Ports licensing information is not in the format that SPDX wants. Tuukka has been using table to convert one to the other. For Ports, there is a simple transformation of the licensing information that should be achievable. For src/base the licence info is more reliable.  
9. Record and explain decisions made  
   * Probably worth sending some updates to the mailing lists regarding some of the decisions being made along the way.  
10. Engage with other similar projects

    * Already engaging with pkgconf & PURL.

