# Work Package E

# Dec 16, 2025

Invitees: Mark Phillips, Anne Dickison, Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Warner Losh, Tuukka Pasanen, Siva Mahadevan.

Attendees: Pierre Pronchery,  Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby,  Tuukka Pasanen, Siva Mahadevan.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

Note: a follow-on Foundation-funded project is planned to continue the SBOM work to April 2026\.

3. Evaluate projects/solutions available in the wider ecosystem (to avoid building a whole new solution) e.g. Ariadne's pkgconf proposal.  
   * Complete, no more reviewing of other solutions is required.  
4. Propose the target solution for SBOM  
   * Base SBOM solution is ready for review   
     1. Has it been reviewed? It’s blocked by the pkgconf issue.   
     2. Pkgconf is not in the base system.  
        1. Tuukka could do it (add it to base) with guidance from Pierre.  
        2. Look in the port of pkgconf, and see how much needs to go into base. Tuukka is familiar with the code and can propose this (libraries and command line). Less familiar with the make system.   
     3. We need a solution for only including things that get built within the SBOM.   
        1. Database.yml file \- create artifacts to show if the packages are included or not. Doesn’t help much with dependencies.  
        2. Better approach to integrate with the make system.   
     4. (This work is one step on from POC).  
   * Ports SBOM solution  
     1. Can already use (f)Lua to make an SBOM.  
        1. Bapt’s concern is that we shouldn’t need to use/rely on the ports tree to be able to get an SBOM.   
     2. Should we try to make it possible to use pkg(8) instead and it will be created from the running system?   
        1. Ed/Pierre, it would be necessary to include SBOM functionality into pkg(8).   
        2. Tuukka \- can probably port SBOM generator from pkgconf (into pkg(8))  
        3. Siva \- Poudriere already has dependency and metadata handling tools, the code could be reused or for inspiration (not suitable as a final place for creating an SBOM as it’s not a tool people should be expected to use).   
5. Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).  
   * not possible until the POC is complete.  
   * Now out of scope? Yes.  
6. Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.  
   * Still behind all the other parts  
   * https://spdx.org/licenses/FreeBSD-DOC.html   
     1. This is the licence information for when FreeBSD is included in others’ SBOMs.  
   * The disclaimer will go into the SBOM artifact.  
7. SBOM artifact on demand  
   * For source, `make SBOM` command does this.  
   * For ports, `makefile` will do this.   
   * Still in review \- others cannot yet use it.  
8. Roll up existing data  
   * For AO (packages in base system) all files with SPDX-License-Identifier tags have been added to database.yml. These licenses have not been verified against the actual file contents.  
   * A new Lua script has been created to add licenses from a CSV file to database.yml so that more 3rd-party ports/packages can also be added to the database.yml.  
     1. This is to make it easier to create SBOMs than using CSV files directly.  
9. Record and explain decisions made  
   * We are keeping a record of the discussions and decisions being made (in this doc) and we are also engaging on the mailing list about the larger decisions e.g. SPDX  
10. Engage with other similar projects  
    * Already engaging with pkgconf & PURL.

Steps to complete under STA funding:

* Update pkgconfig files to be able to make an example SBOM from the base system. That will allow an SBOM to be created.  Do this in a Lua script.

Follow-on project (Foundation funded, at least until April 2026).

1. Add SBOM information files  
   All licenses should be gathered and added to SBOM documentation files. These files should be deployed to the FreeBSD Git repository as most information is gathered there already. There is still license info missing and adding over 1000 files to separated directories is a big task.  
     
2. Add License Tags to Every File  
   Files in the FreeBSD codebase need a clear "license tag" to show which license they use. For example, if a source file is licensed under for example BSD 2 Clause license file needs to have: SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause top of the source file. This helps automated tools quickly know the license for each file. Most files already have this, but some don't, so they need to be added manually. There seemed to be some big effort in 2017 to achieve this goal but as there are a lot of files that miss this information, the effort wasn’t fully successful.  
     
3. Remove Old License Texts (But Keep Copyrights)  
   FreeBSD src source files have full license text at the top of each file. It would be convenient to remove these to avoid confusion. Before removing wording of removed text should be checked that it really is the license that it claims to be. Copyright notices which are also part of license need to stay as there are several copyright owners in FreeBSD src repository. There should be a directory which gathers all corrected licenses with correct wording inside FreeBSD src Git repository.  
     
4. Update pkgconf Tool for Complex Licenses  
   There are several cases when sources of applications have multiple licenses (for example "BSD-2-Clause AND BSD-3-Clause" which mainly means it’s licensed under those licenses) inside FreeBSD source. Pkgconf (which is used for SBOM creation) can’t currently handle multiple licenses at all and that should be addressed.  
     
5. Clearly Mark Third-Party Code  
   Not all code in FreeBSD is developed by the FreeBSD team. Some code comes from other sources like libraries from other projects. We need to clearly mark inside SBOM which code is developed by FreeBSD and which is from third parties. This helps users understand what’s part of the project and what’s external.  
     
6. Get SBOM Info to Upstream Sources  
   When FreeBSD uses third-party libraries, like software from other open-source projects, we should help them to also provide SPDX info and other info which makes SBOM creation easier in future.  
     
7. Add SBOM Disclaimer to FreeBSD website  
   The FreeBSD website has a copyright notice for FreeBSD Documentation. We should add a similar disclaimer about the SBOM. This makes the SBOM officially part of the project’s documentation.  
     
8. Engage the Community  
   SBOM is important for security and transparency, but it’s a big task. We need to explain why it matters to the FreeBSD community (like at conferences or similar). Getting developers involved early helps keep the SBOM updated and maintained over time.  
     
9. Automate SBOM Checks  
   Finally, set up automated tools (like CI/CD pipelines) to check that all files have the correct license tags and SBOM information. This ensures the SBOM stays up to date without manual effort  
     
   Also:  
   * SBOM in CI  
   * Add pkgconf into base system.   
   * Create SBOM using pkg(8) in ports

