# March 2026 \- CRA Meeting notes 

## 2026-03-05 | CRA Weekly Project Meeting

Invitees: Anne Dickison,  Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen

Attendees: Anne Dickison,  Pierre Pronchery, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen

### Agenda topics

1. Alice is away next week and the week after \- can Anne host?  
2. Project management orientation  
   1. This is the first meeting.  
   3. Objectives have a DACI (driver, approver, contributor and informed)  
   4. RAID log will be kept in the project tracker (internal tool)   
   5. These meeting notes will be lightly sanitized and published.   
3. Anything that people are worried about or have questions about for this project? Let’s get a download of everything.

### Capturing of all open questions

4. Foundation steward obligations  
   1. What are they  
   2. How close are we to meeting them?  
   3. Is there any new information that we just learned?  
   4. Should there be any change to our plan?  
   5. Should there be any change to our stakeholders?  
   6. Who in Open Source should we connect with?   
      1. People  
      2. Projects  
5. FreeBSD Project  
   1. Who are our stakeholders?  
   2. How do we want to engage them?  
   3. What do we do if we have pushback from the project? Should we have a backup plan  
   4. What are good ways to use BSD conferences (and other events/outlets) to support this project?  
6. Downstream manufacturers  
   1. Which are our highest priority downstreams? Do we have contacts there? Who should we reach out to? Who will do it?  
      1. Most downstreams do not have CRA on their agenda (the tech contacts we have).   
      2. Big names  
      3. European   
   2. What could support look like? (money/staffing to help with Sec/Vuln)  
   3. Attestations  
      1. Are they suitable for the Foundation?   
      2. What problem do they solve, who for?  
      3. What are the downsides/risks?  
      4. Is there any new information that we just learned?  
      5. Should there be any change to our plan?  
      6. Should there be any change to our stakeholders?  
      7. Should we charge for them?  
   4. Should we start a Product Creators Vulnerability Alert Registry, like Zephyr? [https://www.zephyrproject.org/vulnerability-registry/](https://www.zephyrproject.org/vulnerability-registry/)   
      1. What do we hope to gain from this?  
      2. What is the value to the manufacturer?  
      3. Can we resource the back office processes needed?	  
7. Security  
   1. Does joining YOCTO help anything?  
8. Vulnerability handling  
   1. ENISA (European Union Agency for Cybersecurity), an agency of the European Union, has created a single platform for reporting vulnerabilities:  
   2. [https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/product-security-and-certification/single-reporting-platform-srp](https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/product-security-and-certification/single-reporting-platform-srp)   
   3. We need to investigate this and how to use it.   
9. Requests for input  
   1. What new RFIs have been opened?  
      1. [https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/16959-Draft-Commission-guidance-on-the-Cyber-Resilience-Act\_en](https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/16959-Draft-Commission-guidance-on-the-Cyber-Resilience-Act_en)   
   2. Should the Foundation/Project respond to any officially or as a matter of priority?  
   3. Add to the draft repo content document to be made public.  
10. Conferences/meetings  
    1. Which ones are coming up?   
       1. [FOSS Backstage](https://26.foss-backstage.de/)  
       2. [SBOM Focus](https://sbomeurope.eu/focus/)  
       3. [https://www.ocxconf.org/event/2026/summary](https://www.ocxconf.org/event/2026/summary)   
    2. We should communicate about our work at BSD conferences and take notes/concerns from attendees  
       1. Jordan Maris has tentatively agreed to speak at EuroBSDCon.   
    3. Allocate attendance \- CRA conferences and external meetings

### Action items

See project tracker (internal tool) RAID log

## 2026-03-12 | CRA Weekly Project Meeting 

Invitees: Anne Dickison,  Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen

Attendees: Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen

### Agenda

* Notices  
  * Alice away dates have changed to Mar 23rd \- April 6th inclusive.  
* External meetings debrief  
  * Who has been to any meetings since last Thu \- anything to share?  
    * CRA attestations (Pierre, Anne)  
      * There is a new followup document for the OSI Attestations open letter to the EC. We need to re-sign this.  
      * Open consultation from the EC, we need to review it before March 31st.  
    * Deb spoke with some vendors  
* What new Requests For Information/consultations have been opened?  
  * The one mentioned above (EC draft)  
* RAID log  
  * See project tracker (internal tool)  
* Any other updates since the last meeting?  
  * No  
* Discussions  
  * [BSD conferences](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11GwNjHjAQDie4YiZJppsUYtJgoIT5cam-NAXthura_U/edit?gid=0#gid=0) \- How should we use these to share information about the work?  
    * AsiaBSDCon: FreeBSD DevSummit, Lightning Talks, CfP  
    * BSDCan: FreeBSD DevSummit, CfP  
    * EuroBSDCon: FreeBSD DevSummit, CfP  
    * Allocation: 4 conferences per year total.   
      * Pierre and Alice already been to 1 each (2 total)  
      * We could host a workshop on how to create SBOM files (at the BSD conferences). (Paid?)   
      * External speaker(s) for BSD conferences \- e.g. Jordan at EuroBSD Con.  
      * Alice & Pierre submit a joint proposal to speak in EuroBSD Con?  
      * Deb also submitted a talk for OSSNA, could attend any openssf colocated event.

### Action items to add to the project tracker (internal tool) (tick means added)

- [x] ~~OSI Attestations open letter to the EC. We need to re-sign this.~~  
- [x] ~~Open consultation from the EC, we need to review it before March 31st~~  
- [x] ~~Create a spreadsheet of contacts for Manufacturers~~  
- [x] ~~Alice & Pierre propose a plan for conferences with a budget for the rest of the year.~~


## 2026-03-19 | CRA Weekly Project Meeting

Invitees: Anne Dickison,  Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen

Attendees: Anne Dickison,  Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen

### Agenda

* Notices  
  * Alice is out next week and the week after  
    * This meeting  
      *  Anne, please could you host this meeting for these 2 weeks?  
    * OpenSSF Global Cyber Policy WG Bi-Weekly Meeting  
      * On Monday March 30th.  I attended the last one and I think it’s not essential that we have someone else attend.  
    * ORC Cyber Resilience SIG Meeting  
      * On Monday March 30th. It would be worth someone else attending.  
    * ORC CRA Mondays Meeting  
      * On Monday March 30th. We don’t know yet what the topic is and whether it would be worth someone else attending.  
  * We now have OpenSSF membership\!\!\!  
  * Deb is going to the open source summit in May and can attend any related stuff.   
* External meetings debrief  
  * OpenSSF SBOM Coffee Club (openssf) \- informal chat format. About 20 people. Some of the chat was about the CRA and whether it was good to enforce an SBOM by law. Most attendees were from cybersecurity firms or universities. i.e. most were consumers of SBOMs. Some complaints about SBOMs not being perfect. Will attend again to see if the topic changes much each time.   
  * Global Cyber Policy WG Bi-Weekly Meeting (OpenSSF)  
      1. Combo of various working groups (CRA, AI act etc)  
      2. 14 participants, those not working at OpenSSF are:   
         1. Arm  
         2. Balena ltd  
         3. Dell  
         4. Red Hat  
         5. ISO  
         6. Google  
         7. Nokia  
         8. OWASP/Edvina  
         9. Responsible AI institute  
         10. Toshiba  
         11. IBM  
         12. GadflyAI  
      3. OpenSSF is struggling to give guidance to manufacturers bc they don’t have access to what goes on within manufacturers  
      4. “Launchpad” initiative, manufacturers working on identifying gaps in the CRA requirements.  
      5. Olle E Johansson is liaising with this group on behalf of ORC (maybe not officially). Seems to be quite friendly between the 2 groups. They are talking about sharing tech talks on CRA.  
      6. Considering EU AI group  
      7. Seems like LF research on CRA awareness shows that the numbers are not improving.   
      8. manufacturers are asking questions about the details of the CRA.   
      9. Also collecting feedback on the CRA guidelines  
         * [2026-03-16-mom-cyber-resilience-sig](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HdC7MG2O0ewJHQvw1NRVNZWcFNo2j6Y6R5zpHmuQ3ck/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.q60fc44lus0z%20)  
         * Many Foundations are not able to pass on money to maintainers for attestations.   
* What new Requests For Information/consultations have been opened?  
  * none seen  
* Review the RAID log  
  * See project tracker (internal tool) (internal tool)  
* Any other updates since the last meeting?  
  * none  
* Discussions  
  * To help with clarification of steward status: What of the following does the Foundation provide for the project?  
    * Branding  
      * Owns trademarks  
      * Manages it from a legal perspective, but the project really owns the process of choosing what the logo looks like.   
    * Laying down governance rules  
      * No  
    * Organizing community events  
      * Some e.g. vendor summit, developer summit.   
    * Collecting donations  
      * Yes  
    * Providing underlying IT infrastructure   
      * hosting source code repositories  
        * Purchases and owns the equipment. NYI (datacenter colo) hosts it. The management is clusteradmin (volunteer \+ staff time).   
      * providing version control systems  
        * same as prev question  
      * generating signing keys  
        * No (this is done by release engineering, Colin and Baptiste 100% volunteer).  
    * Contributing engineering resources  
      * Employing developers  
        * Yes  
      * Coordinating development work  
        * Yet, only the work of employed developers.  
      * Reviewing or merging code  
        * Yes  
      * Managing releases  
        * Not owning/managing, but supporting with some staff time.   
      * Handling vulnerability reports and security patches  
        * Not owning/managing, but supporting with some staff time.   
    * Has a direct relationship with users  
      * Yes  
    * “publishes” the FOSS  
      * No  
    * Sells support services  
      * No  
    * Other?  
      * Foundation is the legal entity for the project.

### Action items to add to the project tracker (internal tool) (tick means added)

- [ ] 


## 2026-03-26 | CRA Weekly Project Meeting 

Invitees: Anne Dickison,  Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen

Attendees: Anne Dickison,  Deb Goodkin, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen

## Agenda

* Notices  
  * Alice's time OOO has been postponed indefinitely.
  * There is an ORC WG meeting on Monday to go over and consolidate the feedback to the EC Draft Guidance.  
* External meetings debrief  
  * Anne \- went to the Attestations meeting last week. They presented his survey results. There was also another proposal but it was hard to understand how it was related. The HP person also attended the meeting for the first time.   
  * Tuukka has been to the OpenSSF SBOM coffee meeting again. The conversation is a bit unfocused as no-one has read the CRA and the discussion was the same meetings all over again as in the previous meeting. Will try one more and then stop if it isn’t much different. There was a little bit of value as an SPDX expert talked about insights.   
* What new Requests For Information/consultations have been opened?  
  * [https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/all-projects/blob/main/Cyber%20Resilience%20Act%20Readiness/legislative-engagement/requests-for-input.md](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/all-projects/blob/main/Cyber%20Resilience%20Act%20Readiness/legislative-engagement/requests-for-input.md)  
    * Send to vendors@ FreeBSD mailing list.  
* Review the RAID log  
  * See project tracker (internal tool)  
* Any other updates since the last meeting?  
  * none  
* Discussions  
  * Steward status under the CRA  
  * 3rd party bid for stewardship   
    * Deb has put her response in the document  
  * ORC WG discussion [https://github.com/orcwg/orcwg/issues/258\#issuecomment-4135452859](https://github.com/orcwg/orcwg/issues/258#issuecomment-4135452859)

### Action items to add to the project tracker (internal tool) (tick means added)

- [ ] Maybe send the consultation for SMEs to the vendor@ mailing list and maybe try developers@ as well (ask Ed on the latter).

---

