# May 2026 \- CRA Meeting notes 

## 2026-05-28 | CRA Weekly Project Meeting 

Attendees:  Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby

Agenda

* Notices  
  * Apologies from Tuukka and Anne.   
* External meetings debrief  
  * Deb/Ed: Vendor meetings:   
    * What is the high-level debrief from the vendor meetings \- specific to CRA? Do we have any more intelligence on how prepared for CRA they are, what they plan to do about SBOMs, whether they have points of contact for vulnerability reporting?  
    * All had heard about it \- some heard it from the FreeBSD Foundation. SBOM \- people are generally interested, more for vulnerability management than to include in their own SBOMs (they are only doing one level deep). Most seem to plan to use an external tool or service.   
  * ORC group  
    * Not many meetings lately due to the OCX event and holiday.  
  * OpenSSF updates  
    * Foundation became an associate member  
    * Deb   
      * On-site at OSSNA meeting \- they are trying to raise awareness among manufacturers.  
      * Megan from Arm leads the Awareness SIG. Alice will join one of the calls to see what they are working on (and can we craft a pitch for support from manufacturers).  
      * Christoper Robinson suggested asking STA for tooling/infrastructure. We will reach out to them to get information about what is possible.  
    * Pierre  
      * Vulnerability disclosure meeting \- tool to convert SBOM to vulnerability report (Ortelius \+ OSV, good candidate for packaging in a FreeBSD port)  
  * QNX webinar about CRA  
    * Pierre \- was an interesting call to explain to their customers about CRA and how to comply.  
* What new Requests For Information/consultations have been opened?  
  * none  
* Review the RAID log in the project tracker  
* Any other updates since the last meeting?  
  * None  
* Discussions  
  * CRA-related conference attendance planning

## 2026-05-14 | CRA Weekly Project Meeting \- carried out async due to availability issues

Attendees: Anne Dickison,  Pierre Pronchery, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasenen

Agenda

* Notices  
  * 25th May is a public holiday in the UK , Germany, and the US. It seems like there are no OpenSSF Cyber Security meetings or ORC meetings on that day.  
  * April Meeting notes are live [https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/all-projects/blob/main/Cyber%20Resilience%20Act%20Readiness/meeting-notes/2026-04.md](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/all-projects/blob/main/Cyber%20Resilience%20Act%20Readiness/meeting-notes/2026-04.md)   
  * April report is live [https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/all-projects/blob/main/Cyber%20Resilience%20Act%20Readiness/monthly-updates/2026-04.md](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/all-projects/blob/main/Cyber%20Resilience%20Act%20Readiness/monthly-updates/2026-04.md)   
* External meetings debrief  
  * Deb/EdAlice  
    * Manufacturer/vendor meetings are ongoing, we will discuss later once notes are reviewed.  
  * Alice \- Global Cyber Policy WG Bi-Weekly Meeting (OpenSSF) [minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iAplSQheMgemdMnEw74uPj3oi_6rLLbFFXhg4svqIDo/edit?tab=t.0)  
    * Deb: f2f/hybrid meeting at OSSNA  
      * **Room 207A** from 10-11am on Wednesday the 20th.  
    * They have a regular update on some SIGs.   
      * One is Awareness (led by Megan Knight, Arm), they are focusing on preparation for manufacturers for the first deadline on Sep 11\.  
      * Standardisation SIG \- I didn’t understand much of this.  PT1, 2, 3 and so on. Madelin had some slides for anyone interested.  
    * ENISA platform should be open in Beta in July. Unclear who is invited to the beta.  
  * Deb/Anne/Pierre/Alice  
    * Met with Jordan Maris from OSI to discuss steward related matters