# Nov 4, 2025

Invitees: Mark Phillips, Deb Goodkin, Alice Sowerby, Pierre Pronchery, Siva Mahadevan, Baptiste Daroussin, Tuukka Pasanen, Ed Maste

Attendees: Alice Sowerby, Pierre Pronchery, Siva Mahadevan, Tuukka Pasanen 

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. New Database Format  
   * OSV format chosen.   
   * Individual JSON files for vulnerability data storage.   
   * Single, combined JSON file for distribution to pkg(8) when \`pkg audit\` is run.  
4. Set up 2+ Database Instances  
   * Let's try to do this this month. Tuukka has a test database https://github.com/illuusio/vuln-test. It's in GH. If we ask others to test this, they would need to manually review the two formats (VuXML and OSV) to see if anything is missing. Ideally, someone who has contributed already to the VuXML vulnerability database. Tuukka to ask in the Slack channel for guidance on who can review this.  
5. Migrate Data from old to new database  
   * the naming convention for the vulnerability files and Sec Team’s comments are below:  
     1\. Sec Team discussed the terminology around “FreeBSD” and “FreeBSD-core.” The term “FreeBSD-core” isn’t traditionally used by the project so “FreeBSD-base” might be more appropriate. However, since this is an external-facing naming convention, we should consider external conventions before finalizing the terminology.  
     2\. With regard to splitting the FreeBSD kernel and userland out from the base system into separate namespaces: While this diverges from the usual practice of considering the kernel and userland as part of a single base system, separation could provide better granularity of reporting for downstream users, particularly for containerization scenarios. One concern raised: if a vulnerability affects both the kernel and base system, it would need to be logged in both namespaces. However, this may be a limited corner case. In practice, vulnerabilities that impact both components typically affect the kernel and userland differently, so splitting them into two separate entries may actually be more accurate and useful  
     Agreed namespaces:   
     \- FreeBSD-base (kernel \+ userland)  
     \- FreeBSD-kernel (kernel excluding userland)  
     \- FreeBSD-ports (packages in ports tree)  
     4 Nov \- this is now in a Pull Request for OSV. https://github.com/ossf/osv-schema/pull/448   
6. Add support for new format in pkg(8)  
   * Next step to start implementing support in pkg(8), all the functionality is there, but need to be updated to use OSV, and the test database being ready now unblocks this work.  
7. Upstream engagement  
   * OSV schema already submitted PR as above.   
   * PURL PR https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/496 is stuck, NetBSD uses pkgsrc so they will make their own PR. Alice may be able to ask some of the About Code people to help get the PR merged.   
8. SBOM on demand  
   * This has been submitted for review.   
     https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53316    
     https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53317    
     https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53318   
     All questions from Tuukka to go to Bapt  
9. Document how to set up build and test targets.  
   * Some documentation started, but still being worked on.  
10. Integrate 3rd party test targets  
    * Not ready to start.  
11. Continuous Testing  
    * Not ready to start.  
12. Make CI artifacts available.  
    * Not ready to start.