# Jun 3, 2025

Invitees: Alice Sowerby, Ed Maste, Mark Phillips, Baptiste Daroussin, Tuukka Pasanen, Deb Goodkin (Optional).  
Attendees: Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen, Siva Mahadevan, Mark Phillips. 

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. New Database Format  
   * Proposing a new database approach https://github.com/illuusio/vuln-test Easy to parse from pkg. If there are a lot of packages with lots of vulns, there are lots of subdirectories. It would be good to get Pierre's feedback on this. Good arguments both ways for/against doing it this way. Large number of dirs may be less cumbersome than a single file. Pull Request for pkg. https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/pull/2453 The distribution format to pkg can be a single file e.g. JSON that can be parsed by the existing parser. However, to maintain the database, a folder structure will help with managing at the correct level of granularity. VuXML Port contains an XML file, when a CDE/SA is added, it's committed to this file (14k lines). But it could be nicer to have people able to submit a PR to submit a new file that won't conflict. File naming should have rules or guidelines to help avoid conflicts (CVE as filename? But how to solve if no CVE for some things.) We may need to consider a namespace for our vulns. e.g. fbsd or freebsd. We could create a small tool to generate names based on the rules we have. This could be automated into the submission process. Some examples from other projects: https://ossf.github.io/osv-schema/\#id-modified-fields https://ftp.suse.com/pub/projects/security/osv/  
4. Set up 2+ Database Instances  
   * \[No update provided\]  
5. Migrate Data from old to new database  
   * This has been started (exporting) for the POC mentioned in ID 3  
6. Add support for new format in pkg(8)  
   * Pull request has been made to pkg for the OSV format. Also been looking at how the current vuXML file is being interpreted. Some of the structs in the vuXML are being carried across into the OSV solution. And carried out some initial test. Ed is finding out who can review the PR. Likely Bapt in the next couple of weeks.  
7. Upstream engagement  
   * e.g. if we need to submit a PR to add a namespace. OR update the OSV schema if needed. The actual amount of engagement needed may be trivial if it works already.  
8. SBOM on demand  
   * https://reuse.software/spec-3.3/ is a potential solution. Want to try this out on a couple of ports.  
9. Document how to set up build and test targets.  
   * \[No update provided\]  
10. Integrate 3rd party test targets  
    * \[No update provided\]  
11. Continuous Testing  
    * \[No update provided\]  
12. Make CI artifacts available.  
    * \[No update provided\]