# Dec 2, 2025

Invitees: Mark Phillips, Deb Goodkin, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Pierre Pronchery, Siva Mahadevan, Baptiste Daroussin, Tuukka Pasanen

Attendees: Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Pierre Pronchery, Siva Mahadevan, Tuukka Pasanen

## Minutes

* Do we prioritise Tuukka’s time on this or SBOM (Work package E)? Ed: This Work Package should take priority because there is unlikely to be anyone working on it after this project, whereas the SBOM will probably get more funding/work on it.  
* Where is a good place to stop? Depends on what we want to achieve.  
  * Document the conversion pipeline so that it can be run manually when needed. (in the Porter’s handbook).   
  * We could publish an OSV repository, which will need to be manually updated with a script that converts new VuXML data to OSV and is added to the FreeBSD repository.   
    * Create the repo  
      * Should this be a new repo, or a subdirectory in the current repo? FreeBSD Ports Collection repository, path [ports/security/vuxml/vuln.xml](https://cgit.freebsd.org/ports/plain/security/vuxml/vuln.xml)   
      * A subdirectory would help with discoverability and contextualising the change.  
      * It may be possible to include some tooling to help parse/display/manipulate the OSV files.  
  * Convert all VuXML data (one-off).  
    * Try to find an owner (unclear if anyone wants to own it). Perhaps the Ports Security team but this is inactive. By default this is therefore going to Core.  
  * Also want to get the OSV changes to [pkg Pull Request](https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/pull/2558) accepted (this requires the OSV repo to be in place first). This will have the effect of transitioning FreeBSD to OSV. This will also deliver improvement in vuln data handling.   
  * We would need to create tooling that has the same functionality but for OSV, and replace current VuXML tooling with it.   
    * The top couple of people who add to the VuXML repository, so we should reach out to them  
      * 96 contributions, Fernando Apesteguía  
      * 33  Robert Nagy  
      * 23  Matthias Fechner  
      * 19  Matthias Andree  
      * 15  Hiroki Tagato  
      * 15  Sergey A. Osokin  
      * 14  Bernard Spil  
      * 12  Jason E. Hale  
      * 10  Philip Paeps  
      * 7  Li-Wen Hsu  
    * The Porter’s handbook explains how to do this. Update this (or better to just change what the tooling does underneath and make a small note in the handbook). This would also catch people who already use the current tool but who no longer refer to the handbook regularly. Migrate to this with agreement from the Ports Security team.  
      (Link: [https://docs.freebsd.org/en/books/porters-handbook/security/](https://docs.freebsd.org/en/books/porters-handbook/security/)) 
