# May 6, 2025

Invitees: Alice Sowerby, Ed Maste, Mark Phillips, Baptiste Daroussin, Tuukka Pasanen, Deb Goodkin (Optional).  
Attendees: Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Pierre Pronchery, Tuukka Pasanen

## Notes

* Tuukka has a question about SBOM for Ports. There is a blocker that he is trying to resolve.   
* We want to capture the decision made and reasons, and also consult the community before making the decision.   
  * Perhaps we can ask a suitable mailing list for their input on their experiences in using some of these tools and standards. (Unlikely that the community will have a wealth of experience, we may end up with bike shedding.)  
  * More likely to be beneficial to seek out people doing similar things from other communities.   
  * We could capture the decision-making details in a Wiki page for future reference.

### Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. New Database Format  
   * Do we need to support anything other than text files? Currently evaluating the OpenSSF format. OSV has good traction with real users in the market. Regarding parsing costs, could some be done server-side, or other approaches to optimising parsing.  
4. Set up 2+ Database Instances  
   * \[No update provided\]  
5. Migrate Data from old to new database  
   * \[No update provided\]  
6. Add support for new format in pkg(8)  
   * Discussions with Bapt about how to pull information about patched vulns in packages managed by pkg(8). Do we want an automatically fetched update, or manually? This will require a new method in pkg(8). Pierre agrees that automating is a good approach, using a version check. Pierre will share a link to an example file. pkgsrc (NetBSD).  
7. Upstream engagement  
   * We would need to add FreeBSD as an Ecosystem for OSV.  
8. SBOM on demand  
   * For Ports the metadata is already available, but not for source. Do we want to use SPDX? ISO Standard? Something else? We already have lots of SPDX tagging in the src tree. ISO standard may not have much open source adoption/support.  
9. Document how to set up build and test targets.  
   * \[No update provided\]  
10. Integrate 3rd party test targets  
    * \[No update provided\]  
11. Continuous Testing  
    * \[No update provided\]  
12. Make CI artifacts available.  
    * \[No update provided\]

