# Sep 2, 2025

Invitees: Alice Sowerby, Ed Maste, Mark Phillips, Baptiste Daroussin, Tuukka Pasanen, Deb Goodkin (Optional).  
Attendees: Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen, Siva Mahadevan, Baptiste Daroussin.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. New Database Format  
   * What do we do with the input about VuXML/OSV on the mailing list? We don't see any evidence of anyone heavily invested in VuXML (no responses in the mailing list to indicate this). More value likely to come from moving to adopt an industry standard as people are more likely to have/want to get understanding or skills around this. If needed, we can generate VuXML from OSV to make it backwardly-compatible for tooling already being used. How about a prompt/guide for creating OSV format correctly? It could be helpful, perhaps get some early feedback. Tooling like this for OSV may already exist and help people want to adopt. Probably not in scope though. Alternative would be to open a template file and complete it. How about a LUA binding step? In general, it's good to have LUA bindings in the base system, however in this case let's see how widely used it might be before spending the time to make it.   
     Decision made \= use OSV for vulnerability files.   
   * Formatting could be YAML, JSON or TOML. Bapt is concerned that YAML contains too much flexibility for formatting which might lead to inconsistencies that will be hard to manage/parse. He used it for pkg and it was difficult. JSON is already natively supported in FreeBSD/LUA. But it's not so human-readable. As this implementation is only for data storage (and JSON-reading tools are common), this could be fine. TOML parser would need to be added.   
     Decision made \= use JSON as it's already supported in FreeBSD and it's suitable for the use case of data storage.   
   * UCL format for inputting new information could be considered at a future time as this is more human writable. This can then be converted into JSON. This would also provide the ability to swap JSON in future if wanted without changing the human interface. Tuukka has also created a LUA script to help people input the data into the JSON file when creating a new entry. This could be used to create a wizard in ports. What naming convention should we use for the vuln files, do we want a different namespace for ports/packages? ID be "FBSD-2024-0100" Single namespace should be OK, sequential numbers also fine. Perhaps take a similar approach to the CVE naming, which is to assign an ID in advance of something being made public (which could lead to a non-sequential public release of numbers). There is more value in using sequential numbers and not hashes. We use an identifying prefix e.g. FBSD for our IDs and this needs to be requested upstream so that it becomes part of the spec for all consumers. Prefer FreeBSD as it's not much longer, and is less ambiguous. SecTeam would need to see the proposal before submitting upstream.  
4. Set up 2+ Database Instances  
   * \[No update provided\]  
5. Migrate Data from old to new database  
   * Mostly done, using a python script. Once the ID format is agreed, that will be the last thing. Probably should also create a reversal script (to convert back to VuXML from OSV) as this is needed for the website? (or maybe the website needs to be updated to support OSV, before we do this, Bapt will look at the server logs to see who is actually using the current VuXML).  
6. Add support for new format in pkg(8)  
   * How will we manage the OSV files and version control \- Git? It's currently in the ports tree. Let's keep it there. Bapt needs to look at the pull request that Tuukka submitted. Hopefully this week. Then we need to have pkg fetch the OSV file and then fall back on the VuXML. Tuukka can share the OSV database that he has so far. The new file may be a larger size and it's possible some people will complain.  
7. Upstream engagement  
   * Adding FreeBSD to the OSV spec. OSV wants to use PURL, Tuukka is commenting but no other BSD representatives have engaged. Perhaps we could either reduce the scope to FreeBSD only, or make some limited effort to ask the other BSD representatives. Who are the people to reach out to? OpenBSD probably won't be interested, speak with Pierre about NetBSD.  
8. SBOM on demand  
   * We need to finish the work on our OSV data, then look again at Moin's script that finds licence data.  
9. Document how to set up build and test targets.  
   * Hope to start in October  
10. Integrate 3rd party test targets  
    * Hope to start in October  
11. Continuous Testing  
    * Hope to start in October  
12. Make CI artifacts available.  
    * Hope to start in October