# Work Package D

# Oct 7, 2025

Invitees: Alice Sowerby, Ed Maste, Mark Phillips, Baptiste Daroussin, Tuukka Pasanen, Deb Goodkin (Optional).  
Attendees: Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Tuukka Pasanen, Siva Mahadevan, Baptiste Daroussin.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. New Database Format  
   * OSV format chosen.   
   * Individual JSON files for vulnerability data storage.   
   * Single, combined JSON file for distribution to pkg(8) when \`pkg audit\` is run.  
4. Set up 2+ Database Instances  
   * Concerned about the scale of the change from VuXML, and the need for robust/long-lived DB. When people start using it, there may be problems found.   
   * Could we have a pre-release for the database, ask some people to test it?   
   * Could we put a call out in Slack to get some of our developers to take a look (would need to compile pkg from source).  Perhaps we can do this in November.  
5. Migrate Data from old to new database  
   * ID format for review by Sec Team.   
   * Ed says the team did not get a chance to discuss it in the last meeting. As Tuukka is blocked, Ed will aim to get a review/decision using the Sec Team chat.    
   * Is there anywhere other than in the XML spec that gives parameters for VuXML? Last spec 2003, has it changed since then? Pierre has not seen any changes, but not a guarantee. Could run an XML linter. Does every XML file have a schema?   
   * VuXML was created by Jacques Vitrine (?) who went to work on MacOS. Likely no other people who have taken ownership to make changes since the original.  
6. Add support for new format in pkg(8)  
   * Has Bapt reviewed the Pull Request for changes to pkg(8)? Yes, they have all been accepted (there were several). Now includes support for getting vulns from NIST database.  Bapt mentioned that we should query using the CPEs for packages, includes CVEs. Can pull it using aptget.  https://nvd.nist.gov/developers/products  
7. Upstream engagement  
   * What did Pierre say about NetBSD getting involved for the OSV spec? We had some engagement from someone at NetBSD (Leonardo Taccari) about PURL.   
   * Tuukka needs the info from the Sec Team (the ID structure) before he can submit the FreeBSD change to the upstream OSV spec.   
8. SBOM on demand  
   * We need to finish the work on our OSV data, then look again at Moin's script that finds licence data. If we are using pkgconf for the SBOM then it's actually already part-done (not in ports yet).  There could be more choice of tooling for Ports, or we could go ahead and continue with pkgconf as it will be the least work (i.e. another tool could be a big job to expose all the data needed).  
9. Document how to set up build and test targets.  
   * Dependent on the items above, hope to start mid-Oct  
10. Integrate 3rd party test targets  
    * Dependent on the items above, hope to start mid-Oct  
11. Continuous Testing  
    * Dependent on the items above, hope to start mid-Oct  
12. Make CI artifacts available.  
    * Dependent on the items above, hope to start mid-Oct

