# Apr 8, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Anne Dickison, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Mark Johnston, Mark Phillips, Deb Goodkin (Optional)  

**Attendees**: Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Mark Phillips, Mark Johnston.

## Notes

* Some of the work that we have planned will need to be submitted to the FreeBSD Project with careful timing so that it does not conflict with the release process of FreeBSD 15.0 which begins in September for a December release date. There is a possibility that this could affect project timing, and so we need to decide on the mitigation required.  
* Marketing update  
  * Parts of task 3 and 11 could be interesting to share, but they are only part-announcements.   
  * Is it worth announcing parts along the way? Or wait until the whole thing is ready?

### Work items (numbering starts at 3)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. What about reproducibility, is that in scope? Yes, but it's in Task 11\. Investigating the current state.  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. Moin has nearly completed the article in the documentation, due in review end of this week.  
5. Address dependencies  
   1. Ok to ignore release code freeze on this one as it's separate code base.  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. Potentially move from Thermite to Poudriere if cleaner and less work (and RE/Colin agrees). Moin and Colin don't see the benefit as Poudriere is not part of the base system.  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. Moin and Coliin should have time to look at this soon.  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. No update provided  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. No update provided 
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3\)  
    1. Initial support is already there. Only for native builds though.  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. Moin is addressing comments in the reviews  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. No update provided 
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. One more week to complete this (and Task 11, related)  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. No update provided