# Jul 8, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Mark Johnston, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan, Deb Goodkin (Optional), Anne Dickison (Optional)  

**Attendees**:  Colin Percival, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Siva Mahadevan, Mark Johnston

## Notes

* Letâ€™s aim to get a blog out when ID 3 and ID 10 are completed. Which will be before the end of August.  
  * Ask again in a couple of weeks  
* Concerns (outside of project scope)  
  * Mark J: Tech debt in build scripts, could do with some overall end to end testing of the changes, and including the Thermite layers. The weekly snapshot build is really the only way to find out if the releng system has been broken by the changes.   
  * Colin: More release engineering things that need to be looked at at some point, e.g. building Git from the source tree takes ages, would like to replace Git

### Work items (numbering starts at 3)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. Is this complete? Yes, but 10 is not. We are not yet making use of the changes, RelEng would like to move over to this at some point but can use root for now and therefore no rush, certainly not before the VM images are also available for no-root build.  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. As the plan had changed to merge the release build article with this, it has not yet been started. Colin will take a look at it if Moin sends an email.  
5. Address dependencies  
   1. This is related to task ID 10, and can be now moved into the front burner since the reproducibility issues are done.  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. Thermite stuff that Colin mentioned - it will be much easier to do this after all the no-root work is complete (3, 10)  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. Put it into the FreeBSD org GH (Colin approves this).  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. Some of Mark's work will help achieve this. Like the documentation task (ID 14) this is best done at the end of the project.  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. Descoped in May (We should do at some point but will not happen this year as there is too much work to set this up (dependencies on kernel changes).)  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3)  
    1. Mark and Bojan have just come back to this after working on reproducibility tasks. Getting the cloudware images to build as no-root and ensuring that the essential packages are installed in cloud images. This means that we can offer a quick 8s boot time. And making sure we update the meta log when updating what goes into the cloud images. Still aiming for the august date.  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. Mark has been bugfixing things that have come up during cross-building and that Colin provided as mentioned in the previous meeting (there are a couple more to come through from Colin). Otherwise, done.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. Siva is reviving an old patch to tackle this. It allows a good % of ports to build reproducibly. Once well-tested locally, adding it to Jenkins for a more thorough test.  
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. Moin planning to work on this in the upcoming Berlin hackathon where he will have access to Li-Wen  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. This necessarily sits behind all the other work
