# Jan 14, 2025 (First meeting)

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Anne Dickison, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Deb Goodkin (Optional)  

**Attendees**: Alice Sowerby, Anne Dickison, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Moin Rahman.

## Notes

* Staffing splitting up the work (see README.md) between:  
  * Klara  
    * Arrange a call for tomorrow to discuss.  
    * “We are quite interested in some of the areas like the unprivileged builds, and of course anything with an intersection with the MAC framework or ZFS.”  
    * Deliverables, schedule.  
      * Kyle Evans: no root  
  * Reach out to Pat Maddox  
  * Possibly Moin can additionally help with WPB as needed. It could be helpful to have 2 things to work on while waiting on review cycles.   
  * Colin: Release engineering team’s build script is specialist knowledge and will take time for someone to understand properly if the build orchestration solution incorporates it in its current form.  
    * Moin: has some understanding of the script, and can get up to speed if can get the documentation (though this is for users, not developers).  
  * Glen and Mike not available, who would have been suitable.   
  * Colin: can take an advisory role. Donation of time.   
  * No-one from the Cambridge/CHERI group is available to help. And neither is Edward.  
* Timesheets  
  * As we know the contractors’ names, we can assign a timesheet to each one.   
* Marketing & Communications  
  * Who else would be affected by this work, what do they need to know, how and when would we share updates?  
    * E.g. other people like CHERI who also use the build process. They have their own fork of FreeBSD which they may want to send some of their changes to merge upstream. Special case in that they are not just consumers. Maybe just brief them so that they don’t have to guess what is going on in the tree. They would probably understand what is going on.   
    * Enterprise users like Sony, NetApp, Netflix, will need to know these changes are happening. If they are running head they would notice the changes. Maybe a public FAQ that we can point them to, and a contact for if they hit any problems.   
    * What about a public announcement?   
      * Colin could send out a message from RE to Current and Stable mailing lists.   
      * Also, perhaps a blog post to explain the goals of the project and timeline, and the specific changes.   
  * Planning ahead, what will the likely marketing activities look like?   
  * Who are our audience, what do we want them to know, feel, do in relation to this project? What messaging should we produce to enable this?

## Action items

- [ ] Alice to set up a call with Klara for tomorrow, sharing elements of scope identified.  
- [ ] Ed to share the full scope with Pat Maddox and ask him to propose work based on unallocated remaining work. See if he wants to take any on, what he would work on specifically, and what his availability will be.   
- [ ] Ed to connect Pat and Colin.  
- [ ] Alice to invite all contractors to this call.  
- [ ] Anne, to draft a blog post for review. Refer to Colin’s email  
- [ ] Colin, to send an email to Current and Stable. 