# Work Package B

# Dec 09, 2025

Invitees: Anne Dickison, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Deb Goodkin, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan. 

Attendees: Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Siva Mahadevan (async). 

### Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. Code completion: This is done, testing is via build process  
   2. Documentation: Moin submitted something, Siva will take a look. There is a release man page, (is there a patch in review already? If not, add a paragraph to include).   
   3. Handover: Colin is the main stakeholder, he is already up to speed.   
   4. Community communication: Blog post done.  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. Code completion: Done  
   2. Documentation: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D50331](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D50331) Colin has reviewed, waiting on Moin to address feedback and drive to publishing it.  
   3. Handover: Not needed, Moin is taking care of it.  
   4. Community communication:   
5. Address dependencies  
   1. Code completion: Still in progress. Also looking to resolve some known vulns in bhyve.   
   2. Documentation: bhyve man page updates.   
   3. Handover: not needed as Mark J and John B are already code owners  
   4. Community communication: Share with the virtualisation mailing list.   
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. Code completion: Unclear what has been done to date, need Colin's input.   
   2. Documentation:   
   3. Handover:  
   4. Community communication:  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. Code completion: Still need to move the scripts  
   2. Documentation: This area has little documentation overall, would be good to remedy that.   
   3. Handover: Moin is waiting on Colin (start of 2026\) to give approval to move build scripts. Moin will drive to publish.  
   4. Community communication: Yes, to hackers mailing list.  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. See ID number 7  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. Descoped in May  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3\)  
    1. Code completion: This is done, testing is via build process  
    2. Documentation: Moin submitted something, Siva will take a look. There is a release man page, (is there a patch in review already? If not, add a paragraph to include).  
    3. Handover: Colin is the main stakeholder, he is already up to speed.   
    4. Community communication: Blog post done.  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. Code completion: Complete. Not really any framework for testing this type of thing.   
    2. Documentation: Release notes describe this, but it should be in the Release(7) man page.  
    3. Handover: Releng/Colin and Secteam. He already knows about this.   
    4. Community communication: blog post done.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. Code completion: Nothing additional for the Ports framework, need patch reviewing.   
    2. Documentation:   
    3. Add a percentage to the FreeBSD reproduciblebuilds.org page. Perhaps monthly.  
    4. Handover: Nothing to handover.  
    5. Community communication: message to Ports maintainers (so they can know if ports are not reproducible).   
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. Code completion: Siva has discussed with Moin and will drive https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53085 to completion  
    2. Documentation: shell script is self-documenting/there is some info in the reproducible builds.org GitLab. Perhaps add some documentation into Poudriere.   
    3. Handover: Siva  
    4. Community communication: hackers mailing list/ports mailing list.  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. This is a combination of all items above.