# Feb 11, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Anne Dickison, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Deb Goodkin (Optional)  

**Attendees**: Anne Dickison, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Deb Goodkin

## Notes

* Staffing  
  * Klara contract update  
    * Hopefully will sign tomorrow (12th Feb).  
  * Pat Maddox (no time commitment given, but a commitment to engage was given).  
    * He is likely waiting to be tasked. Ed will reach out to him.   
  * Moin, confirmed  
* Timesheets  
  * Thank you everyone for completing the timesheets it was all done on time.  
  * Your updates helped me to write the end of month report for STA.  
* Updates  
  * Moin  
    * Work so far  
      * Work on reproducibility test script for AWS images  
      * Explore the Debian hosted FreeBSD reproducibility hosted test scripts  
      * Develop a script for the Jenkins to implement the Debian reproducibility tests in our Jenkins system  
      * Explore the release engineering process specially the scripts used by Colin to generate release images  
      * Start designing an article for release engineering process and make world variables that affect the build process   
      * Develop a script for the Jenkins to implement the Debian reproducibility tests in our Jenkins system  
      * Write the who is who section of the release engineering article  
      * Write the source of truth section of the release engineering article  
      * Start exploring the Makefile variables that affect FreeBSD build process and note down the selected variables which are worth mentioning  
      * Writing the Makefile variable sections of the Article  
      * Test some of the Makefile variables mentioned in the article to have a better explanation  
    * Standardize all source release build cases using no-root for creation of release artifacts.  
      * Blocked on removing privileged access to the thermite script (Klara dependency). Colin suggested some work that can be done in the meantime.  
    * CI reproducibility, do we want an HTML file generated as an output as Debian does? We should feel free to make an informed decision about what is useful to copy or otherwise. Colin is using a local copy, but we could publish it in Jenkins. Moin will do that.   
  * Colin  
    * Sent a heads-up email to FreeBSD mailing lists about this work.  
    * Checked with Glen about thermite script about making it public, he said that is fine, if it’s sanitized (AWS keys removed).  
    * Reproducible builds is running in EC2. Is now part of the weekly snapshot process. It has already been helpful in surfacing some issues. (Based on scripts from Moin.)  
  * Anne  
    * Published a blog on zero-trust builds (based on Colin’s message).   
  * Others?  
    * We have a call with STA tomorrow. 

* Marketing & Communications  
  * Colin sent a message to Current and Stable mailing lists.  
  * Anne published a blog post.  
  * What is the next logical milestone for communication or marketing?  
    * When there is significant work done removing the need for root. 

### Work items (numbering starts at 3)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. No update provided  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. Blocked on removing privileged access to the thermite script (Klara dependency). Colin suggested some work that can be done in the meantime.  
5. Address dependencies  
   1. No update provided  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. No update provided  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. No update provided  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. No update provided  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. No update provided  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3)  
    1.No update provided  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. Do we want an HTML file generated as an output as Debian does? We should feel free to make an informed decision about what is useful to copy or otherwise. Colin is using a local copy, but we could publish it in Jenkins. Moin will do that.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. No update provided  
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. No update provided  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. No update provided

    

## Action items

- [ ] Follow up with Pat Maddox on potential tasks  
- [x] ~~Alice to check timezones on meetings.~~  
- [x] ~~Alice to invite Mark Phillips.~~  
- [ ] Colin and Moin to chat.  
- [ ] Anne to update Alice/Ed/Colin on Klara contract.   
- [ ] Mark to write a blog post about GL

