# May 13, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Anne Dickison, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Mark Johnston, Mark Phillips, Deb Goodkin (Optional)  

**Attendees**:  Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman. Mark Johnston.

## Notes

* In terms of announcing work done, should we announce any milestones (e.g. no-root for all source release build cases, or Src to build reproducibly), or would it be better to wait until the end of the project (Dec)/work completion?

### Work items (numbering starts at 3)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. Work has been mainly done by Brooks (CHERI) and Ed. CHERI folks have already had a need to make CHERI build without root. The change that Ed has in review has ISO and memstick images in boot. Mark J can tackle "Cloudware" images for major cloud vendors.  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. Review is submitted, and to be reviewed by RE team. Should we wait to support 15.0 or 14.x? Who will own the pkgbase artifacts? RE or SO? It's currently Baptiste, but perhaps we can discuss at BSDCan? RE already makes pkgbase packages for OCI images, perhaps also support for other uses  
5. Address dependencies  
   1. We could benefit from unpacking what "dependencies" means. What we really mean is related work in the system that is not in the build should be included in scope. We will address this on an "as and when" basis, because it will depend on what we find along the way non-root poudriere is a large task that needs focused investigation  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. This is dependent on row 3 (no-root builds), but we can start work on this as long as it's not merged to main. Reducing privilege is valuable even if eliminating privilege is not possible.  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. Moin has reviewed the scripts, these are OK to go into a public Gh, but currently in SVN and if put into GH which is the source of truth? Colin is the decision maker.  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. Somewhat related to a line item (5) in WPC, and also related to row 11 in this sheet. More like a variation on WPC because the build use case is different to test use case.  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. Probably not going to happen. Too much kernel work required, and we don't have the infrastructure to support builds in enclaves. Descoped.  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3)  
    1. Raw VM images are reproducible, Bojan will be cross-building from ARM 64 etc. Colin has spotted a few things that don't line up.  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. Klara has been working on makefs and VM image reproducibility. Reproducibility for pkgbase. Are there any known issues? It's about 99% https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/issues/2427 Moin is waiting on some new hardware to be able to complete his part.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. The goal may need further discussion i.e. % reproducibility to be achieved. Perhaps compare to Debian's equivalent which is 96.5% of 37k packages.  
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. Blocked on the build machine being ready. Should be ready in 2 weeks. R-B also has CI for FreeBSD, https://tests.reproducible-builds.org/freebsd/freebsd.html  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. Moin has had a small discussion with the DocEng team.
