# Mar 11, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Anne Dickison, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Mark Phillips, Deb Goodkin (Optional)  

**Attendees**: Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Mark Phillips.

## Notes

* Alice will invite someone from Klara to attend the next call until the end of their contract.  
* Moinâ€™s work will move out a bit, to allow him time to work on WPC.

### Work items (numbering starts at 3)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. This would benefit from being complete before end Aug to align with release schedule for v15 (or land after, as log as not during, to avoid complexity). Both Ed and Pat Maddox have done some of the subtasks, and Klara has a patch in review.  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. Moin has completed the source of truth, and variables that affect the build. Now refreshing what we do in the build process to update official documentation.  
5. Address dependencies  
   1. No update provided  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. No update provided  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. No update provided  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. No update provided  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. No update provided 
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3\)  
    1. Cloud image reproducibility is not a requirement here but Colin is already doing this. Fixes that come out of that are classified as src reproducibility as per line 11  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. Almost complete. Moin submitted a PR to the FreeBSD GH CI repo (Li-Wen). There are 11 test use cases with different architectures. File System variants is still to come.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. No update provided  
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. Builds on line 11. Also part of the PR that Moin submitted to FreeBSD GH.  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. No update provided

## Action items

- [x] ~~Let Klara know no-root builds needs to be available before v15~~  
- [ ] Ed and Moin to chat about what work might be pushed back in WPB to allow more time for WPC.
