# Oct 14, 2025

Invitees: Anne Dickison, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Deb Goodkin, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan. 

Attendees: Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman,  Siva Mahadevan. 

### Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. Blog post being worked on for this and ID10 No-root builds for FreeBSD.  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. Colin is reviewing, should be any day now.   
5. Address dependencies  
   1. 2 new workstreams on this:  
      1\. Unprivileged bhyve project is going ahead. (Mark J)   
      2\. Adding create pkgbase VM and cloud images without requiring elevated privileges (Isaac F). As of alpha 5 it has contained both pkgbase and no root."  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. Not good idea to make this public until after the 15.0 release because it will only work once that release is made. Colin's work will be taken by Moin and made public.   
   2. Thermite needs non root for ZFS and devFS. Unprivileged bhyve will be the path forward for resolving this.  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. Not good idea to touch this until after the 15.0 release.  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. Moin needs to submit patches for review this week. The rest is documentation.  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. Descoped in May  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3\)  
    1. Patches approved, and old patch closed? Proceed with the blog post? *No-root builds for FreeBSD*. Colin is using all the no root code, all that remains is to address any future bugs that are found. Still some TODOs to update man page documentation.  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. Complete apart from any bugs (still finding them). Need a CI to test that they build reproducibly.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. Feedback from Bapt has been responded to, need Bapt to comment. Could be merged as the feedback is trivial. Otherwise complete. Ideally schedule the test for once per month (quite expensive test). Needs to have the same hardware as the ports builder machines.   
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. What's the status on adding tests to the precommit scripts in CI? [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53085](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53085) Then add to Jenkins job builder, then complete.  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. How is this coming along? Mark to check that the content in ID 4 is/isn't covering the same topic.