# Sep 9, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Mark Johnston, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan, Deb Goodkin (Optional), Anne Dickison (Optional)  

**Attendees**: Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Siva Mahadevan, Mark Johnston.

### Work items (numbering starts at 3)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. As it's not yet being used it hasn't yet been tested in prod. Still good to wait for ID10 to be complete.  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. Waiting on review (Colin). Moin will resend the email to help Colin find it.  
5. Address dependencies  
   1. Upon investigation, would be more inclined to allow it to be possible to boot VMs using bhyve without having root privilege. It's a superset of the problem and may provide better utility as well as being less complex.  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. Should be unblocked soon when ID 10 is complete.  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. Moin has done some additional sec checks to ensure that no secrets are committed in the automated process. Colin will give it the once over and go/no-go on it.  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. Moin has started on the CI part. Mark will look at the documentation part.  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. Descoped in May  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3\)  
    1. Patches are in review, with Colin. https://reviews.freebsd.org/D52449 through to https://reviews.freebsd.org/D52457 the full list can be viewed in the "stack" tab of either of those links This has a dependency also (old patch) https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show\_bug.cgi?id=288243 Colin or Ed to review these (Colin will review today). It would be good to document the assumptions/decisions related to the work done so far. The FTS learnings aligns with the other issue below about environment standardization. (Task ID 8). Could add some build documentation to man pages.  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. Li-Wen and Moin want to try to amend the timestamps in jails so that the binaries are not different. But libfaketime does not work on jails. Instead, writing a test into precommit CI scripts.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. Reviewed by Baptiste. Want to get the code committed before doing more verification tests. Also for more ports developers to see and use.  
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. Li-Wen and Moin had wanted to try to amend the timestamps in jails so that the binaries are not different. But libfaketime does not work on jails. Instead, writing a test into precommit CI scripts.  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. Mark will start to document some of the work.
