## Aug 18, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Mark Johnston, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan, Deb Goodkin (Optional), Anne Dickison (Optional)  

**Attendees**:  Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman,  Siva Mahadevan, Mark Johnston 

## Notes

* How are we going with ID 3 and ID 10?  
  * we should be able to have patches which enable non-root cloudware image builds in code review by the next sync-up meeting, in about a week and a half

### AOB/concerns?

None. 

### Work items (numbering starts at 3)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. As it's not yet being used it hasn't yet been tested in prod. Still good to wait for ID10 to be complete.  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. No update provided    
5. Address dependencies  
   1. What is likely in scope for this? E.g. Unprivileged Poudriere builds. Probably too large of a project for the rest of the STA project. Klara has approx. 6 weeks booked work remaining. We'd need to scope whatever we want to cover in that time. Unprivileged chroot is currently being discussed in the mailing lists. (Ed put it forward.) It's ready to go pending some dependencies. Perhaps to use the remaining time: unprivileged DevFS mounts. Mark J will propose this to the arch mailing list to get input.  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. Is this dependent on the patches for ID10 being accepted? Yes.  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. Repo created by Moin, he needs to send the files to cperciva@ for final review. https://github.com/freebsd/thermite We think this is with Moin to respond to Colin's feedback.  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. As per July  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. Descoped in May  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3)  
    1. We should be able to have patches which enable non-root cloudware image builds in code review soon. Testing whether things are building identically (installing 3rd party packages as non-root vs root) is challenging, still working to verify as there are many factors that may cause the images not to be byte-for-byte identical. Likely SQLite metadata, not pkg timestamps? Colin has offered to run root/non-root builds to help test once the images are as ready as they can be (but his tool is currently broken). Mark J will work on this and aim to have it complete with Colin's input before Sep 5, which is when Colin will branch the code for 15.0 Ed: where can we document some of the learnings about FTS and other things? NFTW (BSD-specific). Mark: information in the commit messages could be summarized into an article. Colin: some of it could be added to man pages.  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. A few regressions due to other changes coming in. But that will happen for any change over time. There are a few uncommitted changes for the core functionality which is not yet in the source tree yet. Need to remind reviewers to comment.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. Siva is waiting on Baptiste for review (he is likely on summer vacation, we think due back today). we can look at reproducibility errors and do some more widespread testing on ports in bulk. We will have to decide how often to run this test once it's available.  
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. Update from the hackathon needed from Moin  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. As per July

## Action items

- [ ] Alice to ask Moin if he emailed Colin about [release.sh](http://release.sh) etc
