# Nov 11, 2025

Invitees: Anne Dickison, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Deb Goodkin, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan, Mark Johnston 

Attendees: Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Mark Johnston  

### Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   * Blog post is live [https://freebsdfoundation.org/blog/freebsd-now-builds-reproducibly-and-without-root-privilege/](https://freebsdfoundation.org/blog/freebsd-now-builds-reproducibly-and-without-root-privilege/) .  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   * This has been reviewed by Colin and Moin has not yet made the requested changes. There is a code slush on Docs at the moment which means that the change cannot be made live until that is over (November).  
   * Alice to check on whether Moin will be able to resolve the comments from Colin.   
5. Address dependencies

   1\) Unprivileged bhyve (Klara). Enable bhyve hypervisor to operate virtual machines without requiring elevated privileges. Mark has posted 3 patches to update the bhyve patches for different chip architectures. Boyen is creating a "monitor mode" to tie the VM lifecycle to a file descriptor so that host resources are released when the VM goes away. Also adding resource limits to the VMs/number of VMs. Started porting regression tests from illumos (OS which also has bhyve). May or may not keep these. Looking into vulnerabilities that may have already been spotted and fixed in other OSs which we could avoid. 

   2\) COMPLETE (Isaac). Now we have no-root builds, we can do the work to create pkgbase-based VM and cloud images without requiring elevated privileges as we have done for other release artifacts. pkgbase images can be built safely in automated and containerized environments alongside ISOs and other release formats. This is now available in FreeBSD 15.0 Alpha (pre-release) build. Bugs have been found and fixed

6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   * Partially complete, partially not started (Thermite, but we don't want to start that part because the bhyve work will resolve this another way).  
   * The goal of the task is achieved, because it's possible to do the builds without root, even though Thermite is still using root (it's fine).   
   * No more work to be done on this line item.  
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   * Is this complete now? If not, will Moin complete or do we need to reallocate?  
   * Alice to follow up with Moin to see if there is a file as mentioned in previous month's update.   
   * Moin says he will send it to Colin after 15.0  
8. Environment Standardization  
   * Mark has been documenting what parts of the environment need to be standardized to achieve reproducible build. These will go on the Release man page. This will be sufficient for this item.  
9. Use enclaves  
   * Descoped in May  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3\)  
    * Complete  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    * Complete.  Colin is checking reproducibility as part of the release prep process. The Reproducible Builds projects does an external check. Disk images have timestamps in them but binaries are identical.   
    * No more work to be done on this.   
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    * Siva to pick up in Dec (out in Nov)  
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    * This is now in review. Once approved this will provide some additional tests in precommit CI scripts that create builds under identical conditions.   
    * Alice to ask Li-Wen to look at this and pick it up if he can.   
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    * Siva to pick up in Dec (out in Nov)