# Jun 2, 2025

**Invitees**: Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Colin Percival, Ed Maste, Mark Johnston, Mark Phillips, Siva Mahadevan, Deb Goodkin (Optional), Anne Dickison (Optional)  

**Attendees**: Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Siva Mahadevan, Mark Johnston.

## Notes

* Let’s aim to get a blog out when ID 3 and ID 10 are completed. Which will be before the end of August.

### Work items (numbering starts at 3)

3. No-root for all source release build cases.  
   1. We think this may be complete, need to check. Ed's review is committed already D50361  
4. Formalize and document make world and release.sh  
   1. Ed raised some comments, Moin has addressed some, and waiting on Colin for some feedback. Still need to decide where this information is best placed. Can Moin propose or decide this based on his insights working with RE. Moin would like to merge Moin, Gleb's work together to help people who are making custom images.  
5. Address dependencies  
   1. Still on the back burner until the reproducibility issues.  
6. Remove privilege from orchestration tooling  
   1. No update provided 
7. Move build scripts into the public domain.  
   1. This will be OK to leave, as it's a well understood one-off task. And we should avoid a time when Colin is busy. I.e. not during code slush  
8. Environment Standardization  
   1. No update provided  
9. Use enclaves  
   1. Descoped in May  
10. Build VM images. Inc. disk images for clouds as non-root (subtask of ID 3\)  
    1. Bojan has been working on this.  
11. Src artifacts to build reproducibly  
    1. The build time, host, user, locale settings are the most important things to address for reproducibility which are now complete. Reproducibility of VM image creation : Resolved issues preventing the release scripts from creating reproducible UFS and ZFS raw images. Updated a number of in-review diffs to fix bugs and address feedback Currently working on testing other VM image formats, and cloudware images makefs reproducibility issues: Committed additional makefs changes which pave the way for reproducible VM image builds. Looking at some variables in the environment, and cross-compilation for tier 1 architecture (ARM64/AMD64) and source path issues. To ensure reproducibility of these image builds. This gives some security benefits.  
12. Ports to build reproducibly  
    1. No update provided  
13. CI to verify reproducibility  
    1. No progress on this one due to 14.3 release notes  
14. Documentation to allow 3rd parties to confirm reproducibility  
    1. No update provided

