# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package C: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- November 2024

| Reporting Period | 01 NOV 2024 to 30 NOV 2024 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

We started engaging the FreeBSD Project’s management teams in the process of scoping the work that they want to see implemented under Work Package C.

Teams engaged are: 

**FreeBSD Core Team**  
The FreeBSD Core Team constitutes the project’s "Board of Directors", responsible for deciding the project’s overall goals and direction as well as managing specific areas of the FreeBSD project landscape. The Core Team is elected by the active developers in the project.

**Source Manager Team**  
The Source Manager Team is a group of FreeBSD developers charged with overseeing the development of the FreeBSD base system source tree and products generated from the source tree. The goal of this team is providing base system artifacts and releases that are functional, stable, and performant. The base system is built from the src git repository and includes the kernel, boot loader, and userland.

**FreeBSD Ports Management Team**  
The primary responsibility of the FreeBSD Ports Management Team is to ensure that the FreeBSD Ports Developer community provides a ports collection that is functional, stable, up-to-date and full-featured. Its secondary responsibility is to coordinate among the committers and developers who work on it. The portmgr team charter describes the duties and responsibilities of the Ports Management Team in greater detail.

## Project Progress

The scope is now drafted and ready for review. Project management cadences and resourcing are being planned.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

None currently.