# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work PackageC: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- January 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 JAN 2025 to 31 JAN 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

As with Work Package B, we aim to publish a blog post about the start of the work so that the community has good visibility of it. We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team to attend our calls and help mediate our work with the community.

## Project Progress

The work on WPC began, partially resourced, at the start of January as planned. The remainder of the resourcing should be in place shortly. 

Work so far includes:

* Evaluating an existing pre-commit CI tool for developers using the popular CI tool, Cirrus CI in conjunction with GitHub. This will likely form the basis of more extensive tooling for running pre-commit CI with different toolchains later in the project.   
* Developing a script for popular CI tool, Jenkins, to implement the Debian reproducibility tests which will be a basis for developing FreeBSD reproducibility.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

As mentioned, we have had to spend a lot more time in the FreeBSD community and beyond trying to find suitable contractors. Work Package B, and Work Package C both started in January which meant that planning at the end of 2024 coincided with a seasonal slowdown which has meant that getting responses from people has been particularly slow. Additionally, the Foundation has had some staff leave in the last few months, which has increased workloads of remaining staff and created communication gaps which have resulted in oversights. This has also coincided with an increase in time-sensitive project milestones, for example, the [Laptop Support and Usability Project](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/proj-laptop) which is high-profile, has external stakeholders, and draws on the same staff as STA work. 