# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package C: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- October 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 OCTOBER 2025 to 31 OCTOBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Much of the community engagement is within the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team who attends our calls and helps mediate our work with the community.

## Project Progress

The following key parts of the work package are now complete:

* Improve the quality of incoming commits by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
* Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions.   
  * With this patch, if there is a new PR on GitHub, this will automatically trigger new jobs in Cirrus CI if Cirrus CI is configured for the repo. [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)  
* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * Note: We will revisit this task at the end of the year to ensure that it still works (or update it with any new changes required as a result of the other work in this work package).

Newly completed this month:

* Environment Metadata: Capturing metadata about environments in which tests have been run, allowing them to be reproduced to assist with bug remediation.

Work continues on:

* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * Work is due to restart on this, we are having a few issues getting the admin accounts for Azure set up for the newly assigned developer.  
* Automated analysis in tests  
  * We are aiming to continue making progress on this once the 15.0 release testing phase is complete.   
* Being able to manage CI test cases and their results.   
  * The changes to implement this are in the process of being merged.   
* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * The testing cluster managed by the FreeBSD Cluster Admin team proved to be unsuitable for running the CI for the Ports tree, so an alternative hosting solution is being set up.  
* Granular debugging  
  * The debugging tooling (Bricoler) is built and ready, but it's still blocked waiting for the test suite to be cleaned up. The current functionality (being able to reproduce bugs using the info in the bug templates) has already proven useful, however.

Work has newly started on:

* CI threat model. We now have a documented thread model for CI, which will help the FreeBSD project to understand and prevent different types of threat related to the CI processes and tooling. This will be published shortly.   
* Documentation: Pre-commit CI makefile is in the process of being documented, and is in the review stage.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

Some of the tasks above relate to making changes to the CI system that is currently being used to test the 15.0 release (due date Dec 2025). This testing will be complete in mid-November and after that we will be able to finalize and deploy anything that was waiting to be rolled out as a permanent addition to CI.
