# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work PackageC: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- July 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 JULY 2025 to 31 JULY 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | Deb Goodkin |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Much of the community engagement is within the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team who attends our calls and helps mediate our work with the community.

We are receiving continued support from Juniper, a commercial FreeBSD user. Juniper has been reviewing and testing our CI documentation, which has helped us improve it in line with project goals.

## Project Progress

As reported in June, two key parts of the work package are now complete:

* *Improve the quality of incoming commits* by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
* *Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions.* With this patch, if there is a new PR on GitHub, this will automatically trigger new jobs in Cirrus CI if Cirrus CI is configured for the repo. [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)  
  * Note: we are continuing to refine this to work on AWS/GCP.

Newly completed:

* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * We have documented multiple ways to set up CI for FreeBSD to give users options to choose from depending on their needs and context.   
  * Juniper, which uses FreeBSD, has finished testing the work and confirms that it is working from their perspective and will be migrating to it as their preferred CI tooling internally.  
  * Note: We will revisit this task at the end of the year to ensure that it still works (or update it with any new changes required as a result of the other work in this work package).

Work continues on:

* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * This has a similar status to last month. We have started gathering all the relevant information, related “work in progress” items, and creating requests for the necessary hardware to support CI jobs.   
* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * All the functional pieces are complete and now need to be connected together and tested on cloud resources. These can be costly, so more discussion is needed on how extensive the testing will be to cap the spend.   
* Automated analysis in tests  
  * This has a similar status to last month. One of our senior engineers is working with an intern to develop this functionality. One area of focus is to add an ABI (Application Binary Interface) checker. This is a tool used to verify the compatibility of different versions of software components. It helps ensure that applications compiled against an older version of a library can continue to work without recompilation when a new version of the library is used.  
  * Work to integrate this tool for FreeBSD is now in review.[https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48199](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48199)   
* Environment Metadata: Capturing metadata about environments in which tests have been run, allowing them to be reproduced to assist with bug remediation.  
  * Work has started on re-enabling logging during CI. This had been suppressed previously due to the inefficient handling of large amounts of logging information in the development environment making it difficult to manage. The solution will involve being able to select whether to have the logs enabled or disabled [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D51178](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D51178)   
  * Further work is needed to utilise the logs to create a suitable metadata profile that supports reproducing environments for testing purposes. 

Work has started on:

* Being able to manage CI test cases and their results.   
  * Good progress has been made to run a regular check for which CI tests are failing and what has changed in the code base to cause the failure. The eventual solution will notify the committer of the code and/or the maintainer of the subtree with the details to alert them to take action to fix the issue. Currently, it’s being done manually so as to improve accuracy by reviewing the cases individually to build confidence before automating. 

## Risks, concerns, and variations

As last month, we are at risk of lost communication between the people involved over the vacation season. We have invited one of our new staff members (who is familiar with these areas of the codebase) to attend all of the work package meetings, to help spot overlapping work and bring some continuity of understanding across the project).