# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package C: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- November 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 NOVEMBER 2025 to 30 NOVEMBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Much of the community engagement is within the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team who attends our calls and helps mediate our work with the community.

## Project Progress

The following key parts of the work package are now complete:

* Improve the quality of incoming commits by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
* Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions.   
  * With this patch, if there is a new PR on GitHub, this will automatically trigger new jobs in Cirrus CI if Cirrus CI is configured for the repo. [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)  
* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
* Environment Metadata: Capturing metadata about environments in which tests have been run, allowing them to be reproduced to assist with bug remediation.

Work continues with some developer handover, and resuming of recently unblocked tasks, however other tasks have been paused temporarily to be resumed in December due to staff absence:

* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * Work is due to restart on this, we are having a few issues getting the admin accounts for Azure set up for the newly assigned developer.  
* Automated analysis in tests  
  * Now that 15.0 release testing is complete, we have been able to restart on this item.   
* Being able to manage CI test cases and their results.   
  * *No change this month, we will return to it in December.* The changes to implement this are in the process of being merged.   
* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * *No change this month, we will return to it in December.* The testing cluster managed by the FreeBSD Cluster Admin team proved to be unsuitable for running the CI for the Ports tree, so an alternative hosting solution is being set up.  
* Granular debugging  
  * *No change this month, we will return to it in December.* The debugging tooling (Bricoler) is built and ready, but it's still blocked waiting for the test suite to be cleaned up. The current functionality (being able to reproduce bugs using the info in the bug templates) has already proven useful, however.  
* CI threat model. We now have a documented thread model for CI, which will help the FreeBSD project to understand and prevent different types of threat related to the CI processes and tooling. This is waiting in review with community stakeholders.   
* Documentation: Pre-commit CI makefile is in the process of being documented, and is in the review stage. We are in the process of handing over to a new developer.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

We have had to hand over some of the development tasks which were assigned to a developer who left. Additionally, we have had some developer absence in November and both of these have created some disruption. We should be able to catch up somewhat in December and will use the project shutdown process to get any remaining work completed at a sensible point to finish the project. 