# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work PackageC: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- April 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 APR 2025 to 30 APR 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Much of the community engagement is in the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team to attend our calls and help mediate our work with the community.

We have also recently had community support from a commercial FreeBSD user who have been reviewing and testing our CI documentation which has helped us to improve them in line with project goals.

## Project Progress

April has been the first month of full resourcing for this work package, with one new contractor starting. Work this month includes:

* Improve the quality of incoming commits by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
  * Our patch has been reviewed with the community and is now merged and closed. The patch adds support for running full tests in the local CI Environment. [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48015](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48015)   
* Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions (e.g. Pull Requests)  
  * This patch is dependent on the previous one, which was closed on April 28th, therefore this one is still in review with the community [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)  
* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * We are documenting multiple ways to set up CI for FreeBSD to give users options to choose from depending on their needs and context.   
  * We have had support from a downstream commercial user of FreeBSD who have offered to proofread the documentation on setting up and using CI for FreeBSD.   
* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * Little progress on this due to our staff member also administering GSOC (Google Summer of Code). This was expected and does not represent a risk to the project.  
* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * Our new contractor has been onboarding and taking on this task. She has been researching best practices for how to generate CI jobs from a single code repository into different CI systems like Jenkins, Buildbot and Gitea CI, and setting up a suitable development and test environment on MS Azure. 

## Risks, concerns, and variations

As mentioned in March, we are working across a number of adjacent code areas with the work packages and as we now have two more work packages started we are even more aware of keeping communications flowing between those involved. This is being addressed through close collaboration in functionality-specific meetings that span the work packages and any other related, non-STA work. 
