# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package C: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- September 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 SEPTEMBER 2025 to 30 SEPTEMBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Much of the community engagement is within the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team who attends our calls and helps mediate our work with the community.

## Project Progress

As reported in August, these key parts of the work package are now complete:

* Improve the quality of incoming commits by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
* Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions.   
  * With this patch, if there is a new PR on GitHub, this will automatically trigger new jobs in Cirrus CI if Cirrus CI is configured for the repo. [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)  
* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * Note: We will revisit this task at the end of the year to ensure that it still works (or update it with any new changes required as a result of the other work in this work package).

Work continues on:

* Environment Metadata: Capturing metadata about environments in which tests have been run, allowing them to be reproduced to assist with bug remediation.  
  * This is on track to be completed in October.  
* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * Our contractor had to step back from this work due to health issues, so this has now been handed over to another staff member.  
* Automated analysis in tests  
  * This is progressing with additional build machines to run the automated checks. The job dispatching mechanism has been updated to improve how the tasks are assigned and distributed to these machines.   
* Being able to manage CI test cases and their results.   
  * The AMD64 tests are in good shape. There was a month-long gap in testing due to build issues, and now we're working through the accumulated ARM64 tests, with automatic bug filing for any failures discovered. This will help identify which tests need to be fixed or marked as "skip in CI."  
* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * Our developer spent some time working on the testing infrastructure needed, setting up an isolated testing environment on the testing cluster managed by the FreeBSD Cluster Admin team.  
* Granular debugging  
  * The debugging tooling (Bricoler) is built and ready, but it's blocked waiting for the test suite to be cleaned up. Once deployed, it will dramatically reduce debugging time by automatically providing reproduction steps in bug reports.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

Some of our work is getting held up in the review process because the FreeBSD project is currently focused on creating FreeBSD 15.0 which is released in December (the same community stakeholders are involved in both). This doesn’t stop us from continuing development work as such, but if changes are reviewed after December the Foundation may have to cover the resource to implement any changes the reviewers request.  