# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work PackageC: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- June 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 JUNE 2025 to 30 JUNE 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | Deb Goodkin |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Much of the community engagement is within the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team to attend our calls and help mediate our work with the community.

We are receiving continued support from Juniper, a commercial FreeBSD user. Juniper has been reviewing and testing our CI documentation, which has helped us improve it in line with project goals.

An update on all work packages was presented to the community in the [FreeBSD Foundation Technology Team update](https://www.youtube.com/live/9Gm-IGA2t0s?feature=shared&t=23882) at the FreeBSD Developer Summit in Ottawa on June 12th, 2025\. 

## Project Progress

As reported in May, two key parts of the work package are now completed:

* *Improve the quality of incoming commits* by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
* *Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions.* With this patch if there is a new PR in GitHub this will automatically trigger new jobs in Cirrus CI if Cirrus-CI is configured for the repo. [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)

Work continues on:

* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * We have documented multiple ways to set up CI for FreeBSD to give users options to choose from depending on their needs and context.   
  * Juniper, which uses FreeBSD, is currently testing the documentation to evaluate its effectiveness in real-world applications.  
  * Final steps are to check it more thoroughly before marking “done”.   
* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * We have started gathering all the relevant information, related “work in progress” items, and creating requests for the necessary hardware to support CI jobs.   
* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * Our contractor has been developing a working combination of Azure, Waagent (the Azure agent that communicates with the VM), cloud-init and user data to pass to a VM in order to run CI builds on the cloud. She has also been running CI build world and kernel tests on a VM on Azure, and investigating cost management strategies for Azure and Cirrus CI.  
* Automated analysis in tests  
  * One of our senior engineers is working with an intern to develop this functionality. One area of focus is to add an ABI (Application Binary Interface) checker. This is a tool used to verify the compatibility of different versions of software components. It helps ensure that applications compiled against an older version of a library can continue to work without recompilation when a new version of the library is used.  
  * Work to integrate this tool for FreeBSD is now in review.[https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48199](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48199) 

Work has started on:

* Environment Metadata: Capturing metadata about environments in which tests have been run, allowing them to be reproduced to assist with bug remediation.  
  * The exact solution required is currently being discussed. 

## Risks, concerns, and variations

WPB and C have the largest number of people contributing to them and, with vacation season, there is more chance of lost communication between the people involved. We have invited one of our new staff members (who is familiar with these areas of the codebase) to attend all of the work package meetings, to help spot overlapping work and bring some continuity of understanding across the project).