# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work PackageC: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- February 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 FEB 2025 to 28 FEB 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

As with Work Package B, we aim to publish a blog post in March about the start of the work so that the community has good visibility of it, this was delayed slightly as we have a new Marketing Manager who we are onboarding. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team to attend our calls and help mediate our work with the community.

As the work is produced we are engaging with volunteer contributors in the planning, execution, and submission of the work. 

## Project Progress

We have around 65% resourcing on the project, but expect to gain the remaining 35% in March by onboarding a new part-time contractor. Our main staff member assigned to STA work hit a block on one of the Work Package C items and was able to use the time to work on WPB which is closely related to WPC. We do not anticipate this delaying WPC overall.

Work this month includes:

* Improve the quality of incoming commits by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
  * A patch has been submitted for review by the CI team.  
* Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions (e.g. Pull Requests)  
  * A patch has been submitted for review by the CI team.  
* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * This was blocked by an issue with the latest Jenkins update which broke something in our CI tests. This is now resolved.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

We have identified a contractor to provide the remaining hours for this work package, but the contract is not yet agreed. If she is not available, we will need to secure another resource. We don’t anticipate this being difficult, however, as we have been receiving applications for a similar role for WPD and E, which should be a source of a suitable alternative candidate.
