# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package C: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- May 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 MAY 2025 to 31 MAY 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Much of the community engagement is in the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team to attend our calls and help mediate our work with the community.

We are receiving continued support from a commercial FreeBSD user, who have been reviewing and testing our CI documentation which has helped us to improve them in line with project goals.

## Project Progress

Two key parts of the work package are now completed:

* *Improve the quality of incoming commits* by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.  (This was actually closed at the end of April, but the previous report may not have made that entirely clear.)  
* *Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions* (e.g. Pull Requests) was closed on Tue, May 27\. With this patch if there is a new PR in GitHub this will automatically trigger new jobs in Cirrus CI if Cirrus-CI is configured for the repo. [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)

Work continues on:

* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * We have documented multiple ways to set up CI for FreeBSD to give users options to choose from depending on their needs and context.   
  * A downstream commercial user of FreeBSD helped to proofread the work.  
  * Final steps are to check it more thoroughly before marking “done”.   
* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * We are investigating the option to reassign this to a newly hired staff member as we identified having CI on the Ports tree is a dependency for Work Packages D and E, as we want to use it to automatically produce artifacts (vulnerability reports and SBOM). Our current assignee was going to take a pause due to other prioritised work items which means the timing would not work out.  
* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * Our contractor, who is part-time, has been setting up virtual machines on Azure,  and progressing in creating and testing virtual machine images. She is working towards being able to determine if virtual machine images built through the standard release engineering process can be directly launched and set up to run CI tests for FreeBSD and other third-party software.

Work has started on:

* Automated analysis in tests  
  * One of our senior engineers is working with an intern to develop this functionality. One area of focus is to add an ABI (Application Binary Interface) checker. This is a tool used to verify the compatibility of different versions of software components. It helps ensure that applications compiled against an older version of a library can continue to work without recompilation when a new version of the library is used.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

At the moment, the work is progressing well on the work package. We are noticing that though we plan for a target number of hours to be completed by project staff/contractors, the reality is that this can fluctuate over or under, depending on how much progress they make with external stakeholders (especially volunteers) and also depending on work or life priorities they may have. 

One tactic that seems to be effective in addressing this is to have a blend of staff members and contractors working on the project. This gives us the flexibility to increase or decrease staff member % allocation to the project when there are variations in contractor availability (most of our contracts are specified with a maximum time commitment, but not a minimum). 