# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work PackageC: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- August 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 AUG 2025 to 31 AUG 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | Alice Sowerby |
| Report approved by | Ed Maste |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Much of the community engagement is within the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team who attends our calls and helps mediate our work with the community.

## Project Progress

As reported in July, these key parts of the work package are now complete:

* Improve the quality of incoming commits by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
  * Note: improvements are continuing, as there are efficiency gains that we would like to make on running the test suite, this will make it quicker for developers who we want to encourage to adopt the tooling.  
* Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions.   
  * With this patch, if there is a new PR on GitHub, this will automatically trigger new jobs in Cirrus CI if Cirrus CI is configured for the repo. [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)  
  * Note: we are continuing to refine this to work on AWS/GCP.  
* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * We have documented multiple ways to set up CI for FreeBSD to give users options to choose from depending on their needs and context.   
  * A downstream FreeBSD user has finished testing the work and confirms that it is working from their perspective and will be migrating to it as their preferred CI tooling internally.  
  * Note: We will revisit this task at the end of the year to ensure that it still works (or update it with any new changes required as a result of the other work in this work package).

Work continues on:

* *NOTE: No changes to this have been made this month.* Environment Metadata: Capturing metadata about environments in which tests have been run, allowing them to be reproduced to assist with bug remediation.  
  * Work has started on re-enabling logging during CI. This had been suppressed previously due to the inefficient handling of large amounts of logging information in the development environment making it difficult to manage. The solution will involve being able to select whether to have the logs enabled or disabled [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D51178](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D51178)   
  * Further work is needed to utilise the logs to create a suitable metadata profile that supports reproducing environments for testing purposes.   
* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * There have been some challenges in getting the VM image to work as intended with Azure, due to the conflicting roles of Azure’s *WaAgent*, and the more universal *cloud-init* tool that both take part in setting up the FreeBSD VM image ready for CI testing.  
* Automated analysis in tests  
  * This has a similar status to last month. One of our senior engineers is working with an intern to develop this functionality. One area of focus is to add an ABI (Application Binary Interface) checker. This is a tool used to verify the compatibility of different versions of software components. It helps ensure that applications compiled against an older version of a library can continue to work without recompilation when a new version of the library is used.  
  * Work to integrate this tool for FreeBSD is now in review.[https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48199](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48199)   
* Being able to manage CI test cases and their results.   
  * The basic solution is in place that runs a regular check for which CI tests are failing and what has changed in the code base to cause the failure. This is being tested and refined to improve the signal to noise ratio and provide a smooth process with the appropriate level of human involvement (especially when sending notifications to people who have committed breaking code).  

Work has started on:

* Granular debugging  
  * Extending the use of branches to isolate changes that allow for more granular debugging. Post-CI debugging.  
  * Closely related to the item above (Being able to manage CI test cases and their results).

Work is paused on:

* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * Our developer has been working on other commitments and will be timeboxing some work on this during September.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

As last month, we are at risk of lost communication between the people involved over the vacation season. We have invited one of our new staff members (who is familiar with these areas of the codebase) to attend all of the work package meetings, to help spot overlapping work and bring some continuity of understanding across the project.