# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work PackageC: (Improve CI/CD automation to streamline software delivery and operations for new and existing software) Update \- March 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 MAR 2025 to 31 MAR 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

We published a [blog post](https://freebsdfoundation.org/blog/improvements-to-the-freebsd-ci-cd-systems/) in March about the start of the work so that the community has good visibility of it. 

Much of the community engagement is in the development process, with Foundation contract/staff developers engaging with volunteer contributors while making changes and submitting patches for review. 

We have a community representative from the FreeBSD project’s Core Team to attend our calls and help mediate our work with the community.

## Project Progress

As of the end of March we have 100% resourcing on this work package. We have been onboarding a new part-time contractor to complete the staffing plan and we should now be fully resourced for the rest of the project.

Work this month includes:

* Improve the quality of incoming commits by providing system-agnostic tooling and documentation so that maintainers and developers can run CI without requiring a 3rd-party service.   
  * Our patch is still in review with the community [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48015](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D48015)   
* Create a way to run pre-merge CI on proposed submissions (e.g. Pull Requests)  
  * Our patch is still in review with the community [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36257)   
* Develop a method for managing CI proactively including keeping tooling up-to-date and patched.  
  * We discussed this goal with the FreeBSD project and agreed the best way for us to support them is to document the existing process and then look for other areas to help.   
* Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
  * Previous work (proof of concept) has been reviewed by our team, ready to move this forward.   
* 3rd-party interoperability  
  * Researching and testing how to generate CI jobs from a single code repository into different CI systems like Jenkins, Buildbot and Gitea CI.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

There is a lot of work adjacent between this package and work package B, and a lot of moving parts in both. Keeping communications between those involved will be key to succeeding in our goals. In terms of project management, we are now fully resourced and on track.  