# Nov \- async catch up

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * Complete but not in Jenkins yet due to wanting to keep Jenkins stable for 15.0 testing:  
     1. In-tree CI infrastructure code changes  
     2. Parallel testing (put this in Bricoler instead of Jenkins)  
     3. Test filtering  
     4. Bugfixes

     What's in review (who will review these?):

     https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-src/pull/1815

     https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-ci/pull/190

4. Pre-merge CI  
   * No update  
5. Environment Metadata  
   * Checking the current status to resume the work in Dec.  
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * Joe will start again in December.  
7. CI Threat Model  
   * Reviewing and collecting feedback to Moin's draft  
8. CI Management Process  
   * Most done. Still doesn't have a thorough review. Li-Wen is updating some maintenance scripts and document based on the recent maintenance. Will review more in Dec.  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * No new progress in November.  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * Starting working with a downstream enterprise user’s engineers who have the same requirement. Had few meetings and had a plan to collaborate. Will work more in Dec  
11. Test Case Management  
    * No new progress in November. All pending action items are captured in https://hackmd.io/RiIDSUsMTuKTOX-0x-oFdg\#2025-10-08, waiting on Li-Wen to go through them. After all of these are resolved, I will start another sweep of tests failing in CI to clean up the last remaining cases to get Jenkins clean.   
12. Granular Debugging  
    * Siva is cleaning up the tests, all action items are captured in Task ID 11, pending on Li-Wen.  
13. Documentation  
    * Looks like this is only the pre-commit CI documented by Moin. 