# Work Package C

# Dec 15 & 17, 2025

Invitees: Li-Wen Hsu, Anne Dickison,, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Joseph Mingrone, Deb Goodkin, Mark Phillips,  Siva Mahadevan, Dave Cottlehuber

Attendees: Li-Wen Hsu,  Ed Maste, Siva Mahadevan (async). 

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * Code completion: Li-Wen is reviewing all outstanding work in https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-src/pull/1815 and https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-ci/pull/190   
   * Documentation: Needs a developer's handbook entry, or more ideally, a manpage detailing 'make ci'  
   * Handover: Siva  
   * Community communication:  
4. Pre-merge CI  
   * Code completion: As of 2025-12-17, all code has been merged into src; it is up and running.  
   * Documentation: Self-documenting in src tree's CirrusCI configuration file, since it is declaratively written.  
   * Handover: None  
   * Community communication: None  
5. Environment Metadata  
   * Code completion: As of 2025-12-17, https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54247 has been merged and this is complete.  
   * Documentation: N/A  
   * Handover: N/A  
   * Community communication: N/A  
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * Code completion:  
   * Documentation:   
   * Handover:  
   * Community communication:  
7. CI Threat Model  
   * Code completion: N/A  
   * Documentation: update and publish the article in google doc, put on wiki.freebsd.org/Jenkins (after updating with 8), if have more time, convert to formal ascii doc and put to doc site (and update link in wiki)  
   * Handover: Moin said he would turn this into an asciidoc file to publish as a standalone article once he gets explicit approval from the sec and clusteradm teams  
   * Community communication: N/A if published as an article  
8. CI Management Process  
   * Code completion: N/A  
   * Documentation:   
   * Handover:  
   * Community communication:  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * Handover complete. In the process of getting Azure access portal (Li-Wen). Li-Wen and Siva will connect in their regular meeting. Will check more after 15.0-R ?  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * Still don't have time on the ABI checker, should be available after 15.0-R (mid-November) once the release testing is complete. Where to run the scripts for these jobs?  
11. Test Case Management  
    * Li-Wen helping Siva to merge the changes. All the things we need to do for ARM64 are in the CI meeting notes [https://hackmd.io/RiIDSUsMTuKTOX-0x-oFdg](https://hackmd.io/RiIDSUsMTuKTOX-0x-oFdg)   
12. Granular Debugging  
    * Still waiting behind the tests to be clean, as currently this would result in lots of bugs raised for failed tests. The functionality as it stands (being able to reproduce bugs using the info in the bug templates) has been effective.  
13. Documentation  
    * Started & finished. Not any feedback yet, it's on a wiki page which needs review. https://wiki.freebsd.org/MuhammadMoinurRahman/pre-commit-ci . Would like Li-Wen to review. 