# May 27, 2025

Attendees: Li-Wen Hsu, Anne Dickison, Moin Rahman, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Joseph Mingrone, Deb Goodkin, Mark Phillips,  Dave Cottlehuber, Kalina Spasova.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * Now complete  
4. Pre-merge CI  
   * On the final review. Ed requested a change and that has now been provided. Premerge/pre-commit CI is implemented using Cirrus CI. Making it run locally takes too long for the amd64/aarch64/arm64 test, so the idea being that we create the option for developers to run this in the cloud on demand.  
5. Environment Metadata  
   * Include env metadata in the log initially, rather than a separate file. In future we may want a way to programatically recreate the env from the metadata, and at that time we would look to extract the metadata into another format for this purpose. Include: process env, package list etc.  
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * \[No update provided\]  
7. CI Threat Model  
   * \[No update provided\]  
8. CI Management Process  
   * Downstream enterprise user's engineer helped to document and test. Want to check this item more thoroughly to see if it needs any improvements.  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * Access to Azure is set . A VM image was uploaded on Azure and started successfully. Next is researching nuageinit or cloud-init for setting metadata for passing it to the VM. Kalina setting up virtual machines on Azure, progressing in creating and testing virtual machine images. Goal of the project is to determine if virtual machine images built through the standard release engineering process can be directly launched and set up to run CI tests for FreeBSD and other third-party software. Kalina confident to pass variables through the cloud metadata.  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * The intern has a presentation at BSDCan and more work will be done at the dev summit. More work will need to be done to integrate this in the CI system.  
11. Test Case Management  
    * Intern is only looking at existing test cases to clean them up, not the overall management of test cases. Unclear whether scheduling it for Q4 will be too risky. A PoC could be around 80h. Or, it could be a process doc. Potentially consider Siva for this work.  
12. Granular Debugging  
    * \[No update provided\]  
13. Documentation  
    * Was behind tasks 3 & 4 so has been delayed a little. Li-Wen suggests we can start with a hackMD file.