# Aug 27, 2025

Attendees:  Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Joseph Mingrone,  Siva Mahadevan, Dave Cottlehuber Kalina Spasova.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * Now complete, but Siva is making some updates/improvements ongoing as common with much functionality. Making it possible to run test suite concurrently to make it faster. Not able to commit yet as only running locally, but aim to get this in at some point.  
4. Pre-merge CI  
   * Update on being able to run this on AWS/GCP. Need Moin to be back to ask him.  
5. Environment Metadata  
   * CIENV change now closed \- is there more to do (need to ask Moin)  
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * Joe has a jail, and has installed Poudriere. He will come back to it after he has completed his current (unrelated) task. WIll timebox 10h before end Sep.  
7. CI Threat Model  
   * Need to speak with Moin.  
8. CI Management Process  
   * Mostly done, to review in Q4.  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * Most time has gone into building an image. Will soon start on how to fix cloud-init issues (https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/issues/6206), and how to make WaAgent recognise that "cloud-init" is running on a server so that it can accept cloud-init configurations as user data in Azure. These issues are specific to Azure. Dch will share his notes of using cloud-init to help with fix. In Aug had some issues with a failed pkg lib dependency. Siva provided a workaround, but then the original issue seemed to be resolved. What about testing on Cirrus CI (and spending considerations)? This can only happen when cloud-init is fixed. We need an image that we can give to people who are using FreeBSD.  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * Alice to reach out to Li-Wen  
11. Test Case Management  
    * Siva is working through this for Arm64, going through a bunch of test cases. Need to clear the Jenkins build queue so that there is better visibility of tier 1 cases. Would like to be able to respond to failing tests more quickly and automatically (auto triage). There are also some templates ready to provide to developers in Jenkins to support them in using the system correctly.  
12. Granular Debugging  
    * This is mostly started, based on the row above.  
13. Documentation  
    * \[No update provided\]