# Jul 22, 2025

Attendees:  Moin Rahman, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Siva Mahadevan, Kalina Spasova.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * Now complete. Some ongoing updates in the ports tree that will affect this process. Siva has found some bugs that they are working on resolving. And gradually merge all work into 14.x  
4. Pre-merge CI  
   * Additional work ongoing to make it run in the cloud (AWS/GCP) as the free version of Cirrus CI is limited to 120m which is too short for the full test suite. Also some debugging ongoing.  
5. Environment Metadata  
   * Proposed a fix to stop CI suppressing build logs during CI Run in Cirrus (https://reviews.freebsd.org/D51178). This fix means that if the CI environment is set to anything other than local/empty, the build logs will not be suppressed any more. For now disabled the pre-commit tasks in Cirrus CI due to there being a dependency on another patch. The other patch will improve handling of test output depending on whether the tests are being run locally or in CI. https://reviews.freebsd.org/D51177  
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * Siva is working on some ports reproducibility in CI, but this Task ID remains with Joe. Clusteradm have provided access/host for Joe and he can start working on this after his vacation.  
7. CI Threat Model  
   * Moin has started reading some docs and getting ready to start on the proposal.  
8. CI Management Process  
   * Downstream enterprise user has set things up (we can't see what they did). They report that it works fine. They are migrating the current config system to a newer style used by Jenkins, but we won't use this as we don't want to be locked in with one proprietary solution. From our POV the documentation is good, and perhaps we come back in Q4 to check that the setup still works once we have all the rest of the work items in this package done. To ensure that this documentation is flexible enough to be used by downstream users and organizations.  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * In July, Kalina has been OOO. Have been able to run CI on Azure. There is an obstacle in using cloudinit passing user data to Azure. Otherwise, using cloudinit works and passing tag data works. It is time to decide if we are going to plug cloudinit into Cirrus CI. Also need to discuss how much we want to spend and how to limit it, and start testing for real. Next week Kalina can start looking at the cloudinit community for fixes. Kalina and Li-Wen to connect next week for next steps.  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * Not much progress on this one. The code has been updated since BSDCan collaboration. Li-Wen will look again in august.  
11. Test Case Management  
    * Siva has been working on this and it's almost done. Something like a "cron job" that is checking regularly for issues identified in CI and notifies someone (the committer, and/or the maintainer of the subtree) or posts a bug with the right metadata. If unclear, currently Siva is in the loop to manually assess which commit is most likely to have caused the problem. This can be automated in a next step. Helps to have parallelisation of CI run as it finishes faster if it has more cores on the CI host. Need a clean (no failing tests) CI to test properly. Filed some bugs on the Jenkins CI that came out of the back of finding the flaky/failing tests.  
12. Granular Debugging  
    * Not yet started. Would be good to programmatically create a branch duplicating the env used in the CI test. Could even use bricoler to create that env.  
13. Documentation  
    * We'll review this later in the project once we have an end state.
