# Work Package C

# Sep 23, 2025

Attendees:  Alice Sowerby, Joseph Mingrone,  Siva Mahadevan, Dave Cottlehuber.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * Siva finished the work on the scheduled CI, (not the per-change CI). Per-change CI is available in the tree of the test subdirectory. Siva's time-based CI is due to be reviewed and then can be added to the same place. Running "make ci" should give access to anything in the tree, take a look at the report in the Q3 status report.  
4. Pre-merge CI  
   * As per for ID 3\. Check on whether this is currently disabled due to credit limits on Cirrus CI (GH Actions).  
5. Environment Metadata  
   * Moin says this will be complete by the end of October.  
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * Got a jail inside a jail on the cluster. On track to the end of this months to do the 10h in the timebox. Can then be more able to suggest total amount of time needed for the work.  
7. CI Threat Model  
   * Moin says this will be complete by the end of October.  
8. CI Management Process  
   * Mostly done. Have some updates during the update of CI cluster. Will review in Q4.  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * Kalina is stepping back from the project \- Alice will arrange a handover.  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * Added some more builders and the job dispatching mechanism updated. Should have room and time to work on it in Q4.  
11. Test Case Management  
    * AMD64 is clean as far as we can see when running locally. Jenkins has not queued up the tests in a month (because nothing was building). Now working through the backlog for ARM64. The per-change tests will catch and create bugs for each of the issues found.  
12. Granular Debugging  
    * Tooling is ready but it can't be deployed until CI is clean because it creates a lot of reports based on failing tests. Bricoler tool provides a one-stop shop command line that can put you into a VM on a specific commit with specific tests etc, also well documented. Can automate the input command to use for Bricoler in the bug report which cuts out a huge amount of leg work.  
13. Documentation  
    * Moin is about 50% confident to get this done in Oct, could likely need additional time.