# Oct 28, 2025

Invitees: Li-Wen Hsu, Anne Dickison, Moin Rahman, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Joseph Mingrone, Deb Goodkin, Mark Phillips,  Siva Mahadevan, Dave Cottlehuber

Attendees: Li-Wen Hsu,  Moin Rahman, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Joseph Mingrone,  Siva Mahadevan. 

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * "Mostly complete and for review. Some of this work is downstream of changes that Moin has in review.    
   * In-tree CI infrastructure code changes have been complete for a while now and includes 1\) Parallel testing \- will try to merge into Bricoler, so that it can be kept out of Jenkins CI for now (want to keep that stable). 2\)  Test filtering 3\)  Bug fixes  
     https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-src/pull/1815  
     https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-ci/pull/190 "  
4. Pre-merge CI  
   * Progress but not yet done, last step is to put it onto a suitable test machine. NetActuate has provided a donated host, this needs to be provisioned.  Moin needs some cloud credits to test the functionality for running these in a remote machine.   
5. Environment Metadata  
   * Environment metadata for CI is being saved in a file, do we want this to be provided to the user with the test output results or as an artifact like an image? Let's start out with providing it as an artifact (Li-Wen).   
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * Gave up on the host that clusteradm provided (jail inside a jail) so started with own hardware. The current solution utilises a workaround from Moin which may not be suitable for general use.   
     Something weird going on with Poudriere permissions between 14.x and 15.0, Moin will take a look at what is going on with that. Stopping it from running.   
     https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qtQy6oAkl\_h\_anPf0aiMuCC4afvTTOyURyDiukvaeII/edit?usp=sharing Moin and Joe to work on this together. Joe will look in November.   
7. CI Threat Model  
   * Moin has drafted this doc *FreeBSD CI Threat Model*.  Where do we want to store this, and where do we want to put the FLOSS best practices analysis? They are related.  
8. CI Management Process  
   * Most done. Still doesn't have a thorough review. Li-Wen is updating some maintenance scripts and document based on the recent maintenance. Will review more in Nov. and Dec.  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * Handover complete. In the process of getting Azure access portal (Li-Wen). Li-Wen and Siva will connect in their regular meeting. Will check more after 15.0-R ?  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * Still don't have time on the ABI checker, should be available after 15.0-R (mid-November) once the release testing is complete. Where to run the scripts for these jobs?  
11. Test Case Management  
    * Li-Wen helping Siva to merge the changes. All the things we need to do for ARM64 are in the CI meeting notes [https://hackmd.io/RiIDSUsMTuKTOX-0x-oFdg](https://hackmd.io/RiIDSUsMTuKTOX-0x-oFdg)   
12. Granular Debugging  
    * Still waiting behind the tests to be clean, as currently this would result in lots of bugs raised for failed tests. The functionality as it stands (being able to reproduce bugs using the info in the bug templates) has been effective.  
13. Documentation  
    * Started & finished. Not any feedback yet, it's on a wiki page which needs review. https://wiki.freebsd.org/MuhammadMoinurRahman/pre-commit-ci . Would like Li-Wen to review. 