# Mar 18, 2025

Attendees: Li-Wen Hsu, Moin Rahman, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Joseph Mingrone, Dave Cottlehuber.

## Notes

* Kalina will be starting soon. She will be working on CI tooling using off the shelf providers (CI 3rd party interoperability).   
* Marketing  
  * Blog is live [https://freebsdfoundation.org/blog/improvements-to-the-freebsd-ci-cd-systems/](https://freebsdfoundation.org/blog/improvements-to-the-freebsd-ci-cd-systems/) 

### Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * Li-Wen will review before end of March.  
4. Pre-merge CI  
   * Li-Wen will review before end of March.  
5. Environment Metadata  
   * These sit behind tasks 3 and 4  
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * Moin shared his previous work, Joe reviewed this with him since the last call. On track for the end of the year. As long as cluster adm is ok with having a jail, this doesn't need port manager involvement.  
7. CI Threat Model  
   * Not started.  
8. CI Management Process  
   * In this call, we identified that the first step of documenting will help with identifying what more needs to be done. If we have more time, we can evaluate other CI tools which bring additional workflows and other benefits (Note, if additional tooling rather than replacement, this is covered in the line below)  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * \[No update provided\]  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * We have an intern starting next week who could help with the ABI checker as they already have an implementation of it.  
11. Test Case Management  
    * \[No update provided\]  
12. Granular Debugging  
    * \[No update provided\]  
13. Documentation  
    * \[No update provided\]