# Apr 22, 2025

Attendees: Li-Wen Hsu, Moin Rahman, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Joseph Mingrone  Mark Phillips,  Dave Cottlehuber, Kalina Spasova.

## Work items (numbering starts at 3\)

3. Improve quality of incoming commits  
   * This one will be reviewed first, Moin and Li-Wen have met about this and it can hopefully be merged this week. Allows the user to run CI locally.  
4. Pre-merge CI  
   * Then this one once the Task 3 is done and any changes made. There was some shared code but a different usage/use case.  
5. Environment Metadata  
   * This is dependent on Task 3\.  
6. Extend CI to the Ports tree.  
   * Joe is planning to look at this after GSOC calms down.  
7. CI Threat Model  
   * no planned start date  
8. CI Management Process  
   * Moin already working with Buildbot and Gitea runners. Li-Wen updating whole Jenkins cluster for a security issue (not directly in this scope, but related), last week one builder that runs hypervisors was lost probably due to hw failure. The jobs have been migrated to another host. CI cluster is partially degraded. This is a good example of something that can be documented for this line item. Documentation for how to set up CI, 2 ways. 1 \= duplication of Cluster Admin's setup. Current documentation is out of date, some plugin details have changed. Downstream commercial user's people have asked for info on this, so they are helping to proofread the docs that we already have. Documentation of Tasks 3, 4, and 9 should be provided.  
9. 3rd-party Interoperability  
   * Building a VM on the Laptop that can upload to Azure. Researching group permissioons on Azure, to be able to access existing credits. Looking into the best tools to use e.g. Tofu (IAC). Other clouds later.  
10. Automated analysis in tests  
    * The intern's work in progress (see link at the end of the row). There will be more patches to complete the ABI checker functionality.  
11. Test Case Management  
    * Not yet started. Could be a suitable task for another intern who has already been helping check skipped test cases. As part of this work the current test framework is being used, allowing us to see any problems. A good outcome would be to understand the overhead of managing this, as making a framework may be overdoing it. At a high level we need 3 things: 1\) tag every single test in the source tree with a UID. 2\) a way to refer to the tag/UID in Bugzilla so it can be assigned, 3\) In CI, a way to read the tags and recognise in a test run. Moin has done something similar with a previous client tagging things with UUIDs.  
12. Granular Debugging  
    * \[No update provided\]  
13. Documentation  
    * \[No update provided\]