# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package A (Tech Debt) Update \- October 2024

| Reporting Period | 01 OCT 2024 to 31 OCT 2024 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Fund |

## Community engagement

We settled into a working cadence with our community stakeholders and our specialist analytics firm, [Bitergia](https://bitergia.com/). 

The Foundation and [Source Manager team](#note-on-the-source-manager-team) (project volunteers) had weekly meetings with Bitergia to collaborate on creating FreeBSD bug-management dashboards.

The other regular feature in our collaboration cadence is a bi-weekly steering meeting where we gather stakeholders from the FreeBSD project (mainly the Source Manager team) and the FreeBSD Foundation. In this call we review project progress, look ahead to next steps and co-create our plan and work items. We have had good engagement from the Source Manager team which is itself relatively new and is in the process of defining its role and practices. 

#### Project Progress

In the early strategy planning that the Foundation led with the FreeBSD project’s Source Manager team, we agreed to start by analyzing the issue backlog. 

As a result, when we appointed Bitergia, the Source Manager team specified a set of dashboards to help them gain insights into key metrics that would show the impact of changes they make to the bug management process (including triage and remediation) both in this project and going forward. 

The dashboards have been created using the open source tool, [GrimoireLab](https://chaoss.github.io/grimoirelab/), which is supported by the [CHAOSS](https://chaoss.community/) project. Bitergia set up the tool to consume the FreeBSD project’s Bugzilla data and used their experience from similar projects to configure the platform. 

The dashboards development is complete and the FreeBSD Foundation is currently working on hosting its own instance of the platform. We will share the link once it is up and running. 

The dashboards are: 

**Characterization \#1 \- Overview**  
This dashboard offers an overview of the Bugs submitted for all the Products in the selected period, detailing the amount of activity coming from each Product.

**Characterization \#2 \- Backlog Growth**  
This dashboard focuses on efficiency in closing bugs in the selected time frame. The Evolution of the Backlog shows how the backlog has changed during the selected time frame, while the BMI (Backlog Management Index) measures efficiency in closing issues. 

**Characterization \#3 \- Open Bugs: Attention times**  
This dashboard provides a breakdown of the open Bugs submitted during the selected period, focusing on "Unattended" and "Abandoned" Bugs. A Bug will appear as "Unattended" when it does not receive any comment from a user different from the author who created it. A bug will appear as "Abandoned" when there are other comments, but the last comment was made more than 3 months ago.

**Characterization \#4 \- Open Bugs Needing Attention**  
Dashboard focused on the Open Bugs needing more attention, submitted during the selected period. A Bug will appear as "Unattended" when it does not receive any comment from a user different from the author who created it. A bug will appear as "Abandoned" when there are other comments, but the last comment was made more than 3 months ago. By default, Bugs with severity "Affects Only Me" are excluded.

**Characterization \#5 \- Enhanced Bug List**  
This dashboard offers an enhanced version of the bug list from Bugzilla, showing the list of Bugs submitted during the selected period. The results are limited to 2,000, in descending order by their creation date. The "Filters" widget on the left can be used to narrow down the search. Another way to reduce the number of results is to select a smaller time frame.

The next steps in the project will be for the Source Manager team to create and trial its issue management processes using the new dashboards. This will include bug triage and remediation, bug squashing events, and creating self-service bug triage documentation for community members to use.  Bug triage and issue management is carried out bi-weekly. We expect to see at least one bug squashing event this year. 

#### Project management

No significant changes to our project management approach have been made this month. As detailed above, we are in a good cadence of activities to keep the project on track. 

We clarified with STF this month the best practice the Foundation should adhere to when communicating the project work in public. 

#### Risks, concerns, and variations

This month we have been working more smoothly and at a good pace. We do not have any risks, concerns, or variations to note. 

#### Note on the Source Manager team {#note-on-the-source-manager-team}

The Source Manager team is newly formed and ratified. Its charter is not yet published, but can be summarized as:

The Source Manager Team (srcmgr) is a group of FreeBSD developers charged with overseeing the development of the FreeBSD base system source tree and products generated from the source tree.  The goal of this team is providing base system artifacts and releases that are functional, stable, and performant.  The base system is built from the src git repository and includes the kernel, boot loader, and userland. 