# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package A (Tech Debt) Update \- September 2024

| Reporting Period | 01 SEP 2024 to 30 SEP 2024 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | Ed Maste |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Fund |

## Community engagement

We began implementing the strategy that we developed in collaboration with the community during August. 

The first area of focus was finding a specialist analytics firm to help us analyze the \~7,500 open issues in Bugzilla. To allow us to efficiently find a suitable partner, we created a project brief that we could use when finding and assessing potential partners for this work. We then researched the available firms in the market and approached 3 possible candidate firms. One firm declined to be considered for the work, and we interviewed the other two firms. One was a clear winner and we appointed Bitergia to work with us.

To ensure a successful 3-way collaboration between the FreeBSD Foundation, the FreeBSD Project, and Bitergia we secured a community representative from the Source Manager team, and a staff member from the Foundation to take on the work of triaging and remediating bugs.

The Foundation hosted an in-person DevSummit in Dublin on 19-20 September. Our Source Manager rep held a blended in-person/online bug squashing event on the Friday afternoon to raise the visibility of the issue backlog and the work of the Source Manager team and the efforts underway as part of Work Package A. 

Bitergia has set up the analytics platform, GrimoireLab, to analyze the project’s open issue data. This is an open source platform that will be migrated to FreeBSD project hosting after the initial analysis phase.

#### Project management

On September 5th, we had a kickoff meeting with the FreeBSD Foundation and the STF. This allowed key stakeholders to meet and share expectations for the project. 

Since we appointed Bitergia and allocated staff to the project we have been able to complete more detailed resourcing and cost modeling. 

We have biweekly steering calls with Foundation and community stakeholders to review project progress and make decisions. 

We have weekly sync calls with Bitergia and community representatives to make progress on the issue backlog analysis. 

#### Risks, concerns, and variations

Timing of the first part of the project is still a little tight due to a delay in commencing last month. We also had a few changes to our proposed strategy once we started engaging practically with the community. The challenge of depending on volunteer availability as well as the need to start immediately meant that engaging a specialized analytics supplier was our preferred approach. This took us a little time which hopefully will be offset by increased bandwidth provided by the supplier.