# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package A Tech Debt Update - August 2024

| Reporting Period | 19 AUG 2024 to 31 AUG 2024 |
|:---|:---|
| Report Author| Alice Sowerby|
|Report approved by |Ed Maste |
| For Commissioning Body| Sovereign Tech Agency|



In August, we initiated the project, carrying out the following activities:
## Community engagement
We began engaging with the most relevant parts of the community to share information about the work we are doing for STF and also to seek support from Core and Source Manager teams. Prior to the Press Release being issued, we created a briefing document which we shared with the FreeBSD project Core Team to ensure that they had information about the work. 

Following this, we held an FAQ call for the community leadership to answer any questions they may have had.

We held a planning call with the FreeBSD community Source Manager group, who oversee the management of source code for the project and whose engagement is critical to the success of the project. We also planned a bug triage with the same group.

## Project planning and preparation
We spent some time elaborating on the scope and resourcing of the work, creating a Project Initiation Document (PID). We also reviewed the bug backlog in Bugzilla to provide context for planning the best approach to take. 

## Risks, concerns, and variations
The contract for the work was signed part-way through August meaning that we may be running 3 weeks behind the original projected schedule. We will monitor this through the next couple of months.