# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package A (Tech Debt) Update \- August 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 AUG 2025 to 31 AUG 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | Alice Sowerby |
| Report approved by | Ed Maste |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

The panel discussion at [Open Source Summit Europe](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/) in August was successful, with a good attendance and audience engagement. It should be available to watch on the Linux Foundation’s YouTube channel at some point in the coming weeks. Two members of the Foundation project staff were present, along with two representatives from Bitergia who delivered the GrimoireLab implementation for this project. 

At the same event, the Foundation was also represented in another panel discussion, [Panel: Securing Europe's Open Source Infrastructure: A Technical Case for an EU-Wide Sovereign Tech Fund](https://osseu2025.sched.com/event/25Vqa/panel-securing-europes-open-source-infrastructure-a-technical-case-for-an-eu-wide-sovereign-tech-fund-nick-gates-openforum-europe-felix-reda-github-peter-giese-sap-powen-shiahsovereign-tech-agency-alice-sowerby-freebsd-jimmy-ahlberg-ind?iframe=yes&w=100%&sidebar=yes&bg=no) where it was our pleasure to comment on our beneficial experience of working with the German Sovereign Tech Fund. 

Community-led bugbusting sessions were on pause for August due to vacation season.

## Project Progress

The total hours budgeted for this work package was 880, as of the end of August, we are at 850. Therefore, in the remaining months of the year, we will reduce oversight to a general check-in once a month during which we will gather information about how the changes made are being used and any other impact that can be attributed to the project.

The active work on this work package has mostly finished. As mentioned above, some time was spent in sharing the work in the wider community. 

We do not have an update from GrimoireLab this month as there has been a problem with the data feed from Bugzilla and our developer is currently on vacation. As GrimoireLab is not a critical-path tool, we don’t consider this to be a problem, and the documentation for setting up the dashboard is part of the GrimoireLab project so another developer could step in if needed.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

None currently.
