# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package D: (Modernize and extend security controls in the FreeBSD Ports and Package Collection) Update \- July 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 JULY 2025 to 31 JULY 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | Deb Goodkin |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs. The process of using GitHub pull requests is also a good mechanism for facilitating asynchronous collaboration on code changes and proof of concepts. As design decisions are made, we will begin to communicate these by mailing list.

## Project Progress

Work is in progress on:

* Select a new format for the Vulnerability Database.  
  * We have drafted the Request for Comment (RFC) for adopting the OSV format which will shortly be sent to relevant community mailing lists and stakeholders.  
* Add support for the new format in FreeBSD’s package manager.  
  * A pull request has been made to add the OSV parsing capability to FreeBSD’s pkg module so that the database can be understood in this format. [https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/pull/2453](https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/pull/2453)   
  * This PR is still open as many of our European community stakeholders are on a summer break.

Work has started on:

* Migrate Data from old to new database  
  * We are waiting to have the OSV format reviewed by the community before we can make progress on this.   
* Deliver vulnerability data into the SBOM on demand  
  * Our contractor is investigating how to use lua (a scripting language included in FreeBSD base) to create an OSVF vulnerability report for FreeBSD.  
  * He has also coded a proof-of-concept vulnerability report creator

## Risks, concerns, and variations

Note: our contractor has only been around 40% available this month. 
