# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package D: (Modernize and extend security controls in the FreeBSD Ports and Package Collection) Update \- June 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 JUNE 2025 to 30 JUNE 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | Deb Goodkin |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs. The process of using GitHub pull requests is also a good mechanism for facilitating asynchronous collaboration on code changes and proof of concepts. As design decisions are made, we will begin to communicate these by mailing list.

## Project Progress

Work is in progress on:

* Select a new format for the Vulnerability Database.  
  * Our contractor has evaluated three vulnerability database formats to assess the most suitable replacement for VuXML, the markup language currently being used for documenting security issues in FreeBSD. The alternatives were: OSV, OpenVEX, and CSAF. OSV has been chosen as one of the most widely used standards.   
  * All that remains is to communicate the decision appropriately to community stakeholders (most likely via mailing list).  
* Add support for the new format in FreeBSD’s package manager.  
  * A pull request has been made to add the OSV parsing capability to FreeBSD’s pkg module so that the database can be understood in this format. [https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/pull/2453](https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/pull/2453)   
  * This PR is still open as community feedback and amends are in progress.

Work has started on:

* Migrate Data from old to new database  
  * A test migration has been produced for a subset of the data, and this has led to some good design discussions about structure of the new format: [https://github.com/illuusio/vuln-test](https://github.com/illuusio/vuln-test)   
* Deliver vulnerability data into the SBOM on demand  
  * Initial research into existing solutions has started. [https://reuse.software/spec-3.3/](https://reuse.software/spec-3.3/) is a potential solution. We want to try this out on a couple of ports to assess its suitability.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

More of a note \- we have one contractor working on WPD, and the same one on WPE. He has some vacation planned in the summer which we have accommodated by assigning additional resources in other months, however, there may be some reduced progress during this time.
