# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package D: (Modernize and extend security controls in the FreeBSD Ports and Package Collection) Update \- May 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 MAY 2025 to 31 MAY 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs.

## Project Progress

Work is in progress on:

* Select a new format for the Vulnerability Database.  
  * Our contractor has evaluated three vulnerability database formats to assess the most suitable replacement for VuXML, the markup language currently being used for documenting security issues in FreeBSD. The alternatives were: OSV, OpenVEX, and CSAF. OSV has been chosen as one of the most widely used standards.   
* Add support for the new format in FreeBSD’s package manager.  
  * A pull request has been made to add the OSV parsing capability to FreeBSD’s pkg module so that the database can be understood in this format. 

## Risks, concerns, and variations

We have been surveying the project staff to understand planned absences and we may have some under-allocation for this work package. We are planning to pair a staff member with the contractor to allow better handover for vacation periods. This will also give us more than one person who understands the work which is a benefit in terms of CAF ([contributor absence factor](https://chaoss.community/kb/metric-contributor-absence-factor/#:~:text=The%20Contributor%20Absence%20Factor%20assesses,for%2050%25%20of%20total%20contributions.)).