# FreeBSD Foundation STA Work Package D: (Modernize and extend security controls in the FreeBSD Ports and Package Collection) Update \- August 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 AUG 2025 to 31 AUG 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | Alice Sowerby |
| Report approved by | Ed Maste |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs. The process of using GitHub pull requests is also a good mechanism for facilitating asynchronous collaboration on code changes and proof of concepts. As design decisions arise, we will communicate these by mailing list.

## Project Progress

Work is in progress on:

* Select a new format for the Vulnerability Database.  
  * We submitted the Request for Comment (RFC) for adopting the OSV format which was sent to relevant community mailing lists and stakeholders. [https://lists.freebsd.org/archives/freebsd-hackers/2025-August/004807.html](https://lists.freebsd.org/archives/freebsd-hackers/2025-August/004807.html)   
  * Based on feedback and further evaluation of the technical details, we selected OSV format, managed using JSON file types.  
  * A naming convention for the ID of the files has been proposed, for the FreeBSD Security Team to review.   
* Add support for the new format in FreeBSD’s package manager.  
  * A pull request has been made to add the OSV parsing capability to FreeBSD’s pkg module so that the database can be understood in this format. [https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/pull/2453](https://github.com/freebsd/pkg/pull/2453)   
  * This PR is still open as many of our European community stakeholders are on a summer break, however, we expect this to be reviewed shortly.  
* Migrate Data from old to new database  
  * With the format reviewed and supported, we are moving ahead with developing the tooling necessary to carry out this step.  
* Deliver vulnerability data into the SBOM on demand  
  * Our contractor is helping to get BSD supported by the PURL (Package URL) spec [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/496](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/496). PURL is a universal way to identify and describe software packages, providing a consistent address system for every piece of software. This is essential because our vulnerability database needs a reliable way to identify which software packages have security issues.  
  * We tested using curl to read PURL information, but need more testing to make sure it works reliably. We've started writing code in C to handle PURL information directly within FreeBSD systems.  
  * We created a basic prototype that can generate vulnerability reports in OSVF (Open Source Vulnerability Format). Currently it's written in Bash scripting, but we need to rewrite it in LUA \- a different scripting language that FreeBSD uses. We're continuing to develop this vulnerability reporting tool and are looking for feedback on how well it works with FreeBSD ports.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

None currently.