# FreeBSD Foundation Work Package E (Improve existing, and implement new, tooling and processes for FreeBSD Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)) Update \- June 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 JUNE 2025 to 30 JUNE 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | Deb Goodkin |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs. The process of using GitHub pull requests is also a good mechanism for facilitating asynchronous collaboration on code changes and proof of concepts. As design decisions are made, we will begin to communicate these by mailing list.

## Project Progress

Work is in progress on:

* Evaluate SBOM-generation solutions	  
  * Building on the new or updated ports to support SBOM generation and analysis, focus has now moved on to deciding how best to combine these tools to create a useful SBOM generation process. Also, resolving the need for better automated license determination processes. The tool [https://reuse.software/](https://reuse.software/) may be suitable for the latter.   
* Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).  
  * Discussions are now progressing to specific use cases where the SBOM would be needed, as CI is often used for testing of ongoing development work and an SBOM does not need to be generated in this instance. However, users who maintain a fork will find it valuable to be able to create their own SBOM when building their fork periodically.  
* Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.  
  * Following work to choose a suitable programming language for SBOM generation, the next focus has been drafting SBOM elements using \`pkgconf\` for several key packages: \`clang\`, \`libc\`, \`mkuzip\`, \`xz\`, \`zlib\`, and \`zstd\`. The goal was to determine the extent of what can be achieved with \`pkgconf\` and identify its limitations. After initial exploration, annotations were updated to conform to the REUSE specification for each package.   
  * Additionally, a test SBOM output webpage template was developed using the Scancode-toolkit to generate the content in a TOML output format. Although this is still in progress, it has reached a functional stage.  
  * Work in progress can be found at: [https://github.com/illuusio/freebsd-src/blob/pkgconfig-test/pkgconfig/README.md](https://github.com/illuusio/freebsd-src/blob/pkgconfig-test/pkgconfig/README.md) 

## Risks, concerns, and variations

More of a note \- we have one contractor working on WPD, and the same one on WPE. He has some vacation planned in the summer which we have accommodated by assigning additional resource in other months, however, there may be some reduced progress during this time.  
