# FreeBSD Foundation Work Package E (Improve existing, and implement new, tooling and processes for FreeBSD Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)) Update \- December 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 DECEMBER 2025 to 31 DECEMBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

Complete.

### Final Summary

This work package delivered foundational improvements to the tools and processes for generating the FreeBSD Software Bill of Materials (SBOM). 

We made changes (currently under review) to consolidate individual provenance data from both the base system and ports trees into a unified, higher-level view. We also created tooling that can scan the FreeBSD source tree and generate an SBOM report covering the entire software stack.

The FreeBSD ports tree already had good metadata for creating SBOMs and established tools for tracking package dependencies, so our SBOM solutions for ports are now mature and in the review stage. However, the FreeBSD base system uses a completely different build system, with SBOM information scattered throughout the repository. The main challenge here has been gathering all the dependencies and package information into one place. As a result, SBOM creation for the FreeBSD base system is still at the technical preview stage with only example data currently available.

A follow-on project has been commissioned for early 2026 to build on the foundational elements and develop a full, robust SBOM solution.

Work items statuses

* Evaluate projects/solutions available in the wider ecosystem (complete)  
* Propose the target solution for SBOM (in review)  
* Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds) (descoped due to time constraints)  
* Produce an SBOM as an artifact as part of the release process (partially complete)  
* SBOM artifact on demand (in review)  
* Roll up existing data (in review)  
* Record and explain decisions made (in review)  
* Engage with other similar projects (complete)  
* Share and socialise work done (complete).
