# FreeBSD Foundation Work Package E (Improve existing, and implement new, tooling and processes for FreeBSD Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)) Update \- November 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 NOVEMBER 2025 to 30 NOVEMBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs. The process of using GitHub pull requests is also a good mechanism for facilitating asynchronous collaboration on code changes and proof of concepts. As design decisions are made, we are communicating these by mailing list.

There are also upstream (3rd-party) open source projects that we are working with where changes in these projects are required to get the tooling to support FreeBSD. 

## Project Progress

Work is complete on:

* Evaluate SBOM-generation solutions	  
  * SPDX 3.0 Lite has been chosen as the target output format.  
  * AboutCode/ScanCode has been chosen as the Software Composition Analysis tool to inspect software in the FreeBSD supply chain and gather information to be included in the SBOM.  
* Propose the target solution for SBOM  
  * This is complete for the base system and merged in the upstream project, pkgconf.   
    * Closed: [https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/429](https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/429)   
    * Closed: [https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/427](https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/427)  
    * Note that these changes are not only beneficial to FreeBSD, but to many users of the upstream tool. For example, one is an update that allows pkgconf to generate SBOMs to a newer SBOM standard.

Work is in progress on:

* Propose the target solution for SBOM  
  * Proof of concept/draft solution is in progress for the ports tree, it has been discussed at length with the code owners as there are several ways to approach this goal. A decision has been made and the design of package IDs (URLs) has been completed.  
* Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).  
  * (Still dependent on the point above, no change this month). Work is underway to implement the standards and tools mentioned in the previous point. This is currently waiting until the POC mentioned above is complete as the changes needed in the CI will depend on the finalized solution.   
* Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.  
  * SBOM legal disclaimer to ensure that consumers of the SBOMs understand the risk of error in any information they contain. This is now publicly lodged at the SPDX 3rd-party website and will be included in any SBOM: [https://spdx.org/licenses/FreeBSD-DOC.html](https://spdx.org/licenses/FreeBSD-DOC.html)   
  * A “make SBOM” function will allow SBOMs to be created for the Ports tree. Changes have been submitted to help process the information on Ports as part of the “make” function, and a logging tool has also been created to support troubleshooting.  
    * In review: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53316](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53316)   
    * In review: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53317](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53317)   
  * There has been some churn in deciding a suitable mechanism for creating an SBOM in the Ports tree. Any approach used has some compromises and the subject has required more discussion with the community stakeholders to ensure a suitable long-term solution. Changes to underlying systems is likely to be needed and so this item may only get to the point of a complete design, and not a complete implementation. 

* SBOM artifact on demand  
  * The work in previous items on creating a “make SBOM” command will enable this as well. 

Work has started on:

* Roll up existing data  
  * The tooling on this is being tested manually, using the most-complete package contrib files as a test set. Ports licensing information is not in the format that SPDX wants so we have been using a table to convert one to the other. For Ports, there is a simple transformation of the licensing information that should be achievable. For src/base the licence info is more reliable.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

As noted in the progress section, there are some designs which are still being developed for the Ports SBOM solution. This means that it’s possible that the implementation will not be completed during the project duration. However, it is likely that the Foundation will fund an additional SBOM project in 2026 to complete the work as it has a compliance element which is important for FreeBSD.