# FreeBSD Foundation Work Package E (Improve existing, and implement new, tooling and processes for FreeBSD Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)) Update \- October 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 OCTOBER 2025 to 31 OCTOBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs. The process of using GitHub pull requests is also a good mechanism for facilitating asynchronous collaboration on code changes and proof of concepts. As design decisions are made, we will communicate these by mailing list.

There are also upstream (3rd-party) open source projects that we are working with where changes in these projects are required to get the tooling to support FreeBSD. 

## Project Progress

Work is complete on:

* Evaluate SBOM-generation solutions	  
  * SPDX 3.0 Lite has been chosen as the target output format.  
  * AboutCode/ScanCode has been chosen as the Software Composition Analysis tool to inspect software in the FreeBSD supply chain and gather information to be included in the SBOM.

Work is in progress on:

* Propose the target solution for SBOM  
  * Proof of concept/draft solution is in progress for the ports tree, and is complete for the base system (ready for review).   
  * Changes to the upstream project, pkgconf, have been submitted, some are accepted and some are not yet reviewed.   
    * In review: [https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/429](https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/429)   
    * Closed: [https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/427](https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/427)  
    * Note that these changes are not only beneficial to FreeBSD, but to many users of the upstream tool. For example, one is an update that allows pkgconf to generate SBOMs to a newer SBOM standard.  
* Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).  
  * Work is underway to implement the standards and tools mentioned in the previous point. This is currently waiting until the POC mentioned above is complete as the changes needed in the CI will depend on the finalized solution.   
* Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.  
  * We now have a suitable SBOM legal disclaimer to ensure that consumers of the SBOMs understand the risk of error in any information they contain.  
  * A “make SBOM” function will allow SBOMs to be created for the Ports tree. Changes have been submitted to help process the information on Ports as part of the “make” function, and a logging tool has also been created to support troubleshooting.  
    * In review: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53316](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53316)   
    * In review: [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53317](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53317) 

Work has started on:

* SBOM artifact on demand  
  * The work in previous items on creating a “make SBOM” command will enable this as well. 

## Risks, concerns, and variations

None currently.