# FreeBSD Foundation Work Package E (Improve existing, and implement new, tooling and processes for FreeBSD Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)) Update \- September 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 SEPTEMBER 2025 to 30 SEPTEMBER 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | [Alice Sowerby](mailto:alice@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| Report approved by | [Ed Maste](mailto:emaste@freebsdfoundation.org) |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs. The process of using GitHub pull requests is also a good mechanism for facilitating asynchronous collaboration on code changes and proof of concepts. As design decisions are made, we will communicate these by mailing list.

## Project Progress

Work is in progress on:

* Evaluate SBOM-generation solutions	  
  * SPDX 3.0 Lite has been chosen as the target output format.  
  * AboutCode/ScanCode has been chosen as the Software Composition Analysis tool to inspect software in the FreeBSD supply chain and gather information to be included in the SBOM.  
  * `pkgconf` is being used to generate the information needed to create the SBOM. Changes needed to this tool are being proposed to the upstream project [https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/427](https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf/pull/427)   
  * Work is underway to enable SPDX support by developing LUA and `pkgconf` C code to enable SPDX 3.0 output.  
  * A sample output SPDX 3.0 Lite file is now available [https://github.com/illuusio/freebsd-src/tree/pkgconfig-test/pkgconfig/doc/FreeBSD-SPDX-Lite-profile-example.json](https://github.com/illuusio/freebsd-src/tree/pkgconfig-test/pkgconfig/doc/FreeBSD-SPDX-Lite-profile-example.json) with additional commentary available at [https://github.com/illuusio/freebsd-src/tree/pkgconfig-test/pkgconfig/doc/FreeBSD-SPDX-Lite-profile-example.md](https://github.com/illuusio/freebsd-src/tree/pkgconfig-test/pkgconfig/doc/FreeBSD-SPDX-Lite-profile-example.md) The primary objective of this work was to establish a proof-of-concept for generating valid SPDX 3.0.1 Lite documents, which will later be used as a benchmark to validate SBOMs produced by automated tools. The artifacts also document design decisions that will inform future tooling and standardization efforts.  
* Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).  
  * Work is underway to implement the standards and tools mentioned in the previous point.  
* Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.  
  * We are working with our attorneys to create a suitable legal disclaimer for the SBOM once created, as it’s not possible to provide a warranty for its accuracy.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

None currently.