# FreeBSD Foundation Work Package E (Improve existing, and implement new, tooling and processes for FreeBSD Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)) Update \- August 2025

| Reporting Period | 01 AUG 2025 to 31 AUG 2025 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Report Author | Alice Sowerby |
| Report approved by | Ed Maste |
| For Commissioning Body | Sovereign Tech Agency |

## Status

In progress.

## Community engagement

Our contractor continues to engage with key community SMEs to understand the pertinent parts of the FreeBSD system, tools and processes. Our monthly meetings, combined with ad hoc direct communication seems to be working well to keep our contractor aligned with community stakeholder needs. The process of using GitHub pull requests is also a good mechanism for facilitating asynchronous collaboration on code changes and proof of concepts. As design decisions arise, we will communicate these by mailing list.

## Project Progress

Work is in progress on:

* Evaluate SBOM-generation solutions	  
  * The work is proceeding on the assumption that the SPDX format will be suitable (we have submitted a Request for Comment in the community [https://lists.freebsd.org/archives/freebsd-hackers/2025-August/004803.html](https://lists.freebsd.org/archives/freebsd-hackers/2025-August/004803.html) and the SPDX format has been chosen to use).  
  * SPDX 3.0 Lite has been chosen as the target output format.  
  * AboutCode/ScanCode has been chosen as the Software Composition Analysis tool to inspect software in the FreeBSD supply chain and gather information to be included in the SBOM.  
* Produce an SBOM in CI (e.g. weekly builds).  
  * Work is underway to implement the standards and tools mentioned in the previous point.  
* Produce an SBOM as a release artifact as part of the release process.  
  * We are working with our attorneys to create a suitable legal disclaimer for the SBOM once created, as it’s not possible to provide a warranty for its accuracy.

## Risks, concerns, and variations

None currently.