
# Meeting Notes: November 04, 2024

Attendees: Warner Losh, Joe Mingrone, Ed Maste, Mark Johnston, Anne Dickison, Jason Perlow, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Matheiu Arnold, John Baldwin

Notes



* GrimoireLab
    * Hosting - update from Moin
        * Work in progress, should be able to see it in the next few days. 
    * GitHub - [https://github.com/Bitergia/s24-15-freebsd/](https://github.com/Bitergia/s24-15-freebsd/) 
        * Does srcmgr@ want to take a look and approve it being made public?
    * Any desire for another call with Bitergia? We don’t necessarily need to have a final call as they suggested. 
    * CHAOSS community [website](https://chaoss.community/) and [metrics calls](https://ics.teamup.com/feed/ksk9vit7vig1w48j3s/13059921.ics) also worth noting for support on how to use the dashboards and understand project health going forward.
* November and December goals
    * 1x Public bug triage
        * Late Nov/Early Sep
        * Finish guide first, next srcmgr@ call is at the end of next week. 
        * Can srcmgr@ use Zoom, would need an enterprise account to get the features we need. 
            * Anne knows how to set up a more event-style Zoom call with moderators etc. 
        * Ideally using dashboards to get a target list of bugs.
        * Capture outcomes (learnings, process development, bugs closed).
            *  can make a summary of how it went. And one of us can also attend to capture info. 
        * Can Moin help srcmgr@ with this? 
            * Can help on the day as needed.
        * The platform to be ready will be helpful.  
    * Document “how to triage bugs” (policy?) for people to be able to do this async.
        * This will be source specific (not ports) and more of a guide. A prerequisite for the bugathon. 
        * Does this fit into the activities of formalizing srcmgr@?
            * Warner is working on the charter to go on the website, the guide can fit into a similar space online. 
        * Can Moin help srcmgr@ with this?
    * Further customize Grimoirelab
        * May want to add (Bugzilla, GrimoireLab) more tags/labels for subcomponents. 
            * Most likely to emerge over time. 
            * Moin can add new keywords as needed. 
            * Tagging can be done in Bugzilla either in GUI or by batch
            * Moin suggests a session with Linimon to discuss approach to tagging/keyword labeling.
            * Perhaps evaluate whether adding GH as a data source is worth doing. Especially WRT to pull request lifecycle. 
        * Communicate/share with others
            * Summit
        * Can Moin help srcmgr@ with this?
    * Who else should we onboard to GrimoireLab for bug management?
        * No other systematic owner
        * [BugMeister@freebsd.org](mailto:BugMeister@freebsd.org) manage/administer Bugzilla. They might be interested to know more about this project. 
* Next Work Packages
    * Thank you for your input. Emails have gone out to invite collaboration on the scope of those projects. 

Action items

- [ ] 