
# Meeting Notes: September 12, 2024

Attendees: Warner Losh, Joseph Mingrone, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Mathieu Arnold, Greg Wallace, John Baldwin, Mark Johnston.

Notes
* Foundation Update: 
    * We met with STF to formally kick off the project. We noted the requirement to submit granular timesheets and share learnings in the monthly reports. Alice is considering weekly journaling to capture on-the-ground experience. 
    * We have interviewed specialized analytics suppliers to support the analysis phase of the project. We are likely to sign Bitergia imminently. We feel that they have a good skillset and experience for this work, are more affordable and can start immediately. They will be working with Mark Johnston as their primary representative from the community. 
        * Bugzilla access - Li Wen can help with that
        * 
    * We could start other elements before the analysis. 
        * Moin
        * Mark Linimon
        * Mark J - planning on starting community engagement next week at the conference. 
        * Useful to find bugs that are no longer needed. Not necessarily happy to close bugs that are old just due to age. Closing groups of bugs would be appropriate if we can get confidence on whether they are needed or not. 
    * We could get the data to Bitergia ahead of starting the analysis cycle in a few weeks
        * 
    * We have appointed a FTE to work on the bug triage and remediation (after the analytics phase).
        * 
* Decisions
    * Can we sign Bitergia without explicit approval to change the invoicing distribution? If not, their start date of Monday 16 will need to be pushed back and will push the whole WPA back. 
* Feedback from Mat after watching the [Bitergia call recording](https://us06web.zoom.us/rec/share/T20colihp-fIrlG6znEeCabDgKugQUizLI0SsQlzn8Otvgmwpwqu9-aTeCkcwAC5.xQ6uZvPgKfvSisRQ)  Passcode: 7UK$az&$
    * Dashboards are useful for managers in traditional teams to address KPIs and workload issues. 
    * In an open-source project with volunteers, the same approach doesn’t work since: Volunteers can't be hired if more work arises.
    * Volunteers can’t be forced to work on specific tasks. 
    * Volunteers may not respond to dashboard data or metrics. 
    * Although teams exist to monitor dashboards, the srcmgr team members may be helpless watching the bug count rise without being able to enforce action.

Action items



- [ ] 
