
# Meeting Notes: October 10, 2024

Attendees: Warner Losh, Joseph Mingrone, Mark Johnston, Anne Dickison, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Mathieu Arnold, John Baldwin.

Notes

* Foundation update
    * We have been working with Bitergia and they have successfully connected to the Bugzilla data source, and have created a dashboard for us. 
    * They have done some knowledge gathering with the srcmgr@ team and Foundation staff and are producing tailored dashboard views to help us understand and monitor the backlog.They will also produce a short report at the end of the engagement to give us a summary of the backlog characterisation. This could also be used to create marketing content, and we have offered to do some co-marketing if they like.
    * Moin is now our contracted resource on the STF Work Package A and is in the process of deploying GrimoireLab (the open source dashboard that Bitergia uses) on our own hosted instance, on FreeBSD. 
    * Notes from our calls with Bitergia are available 
* Community update
    * srcmgr@ biweekly call was last Friday. srcmgr@ has announced to the community and promised further updates. This includes triaging. 
    * Mark plans to set up a virtual/online bug squashing event. Perhaps the analysis work can help to inform these. Still thinking about the best format for this. But not a blocker/requirement. Mark Linman is also closing bugs in the background. 
* Review the plan to look ahead at upcoming tasks
    * Mark will be working on labeling the bugs, and reviewing the backlog. 
    * Communication strategy for community, have regular opportunities for people to join calls, see what is happening. No difference to what is already happening, just more proactive. Not likely to batch/bulk close bugs. 
    * We have about 20 src bugs per week coming in. Now the srcmgr@ team is triaging bugs, and Mark L is closing bugs we are trending downwards on backlog size.
    * The other view is that we should close all bugs over 4y old as it’s not time efficient to go through all bugs and interact with them. Making bugzilla usable (through reducing the number of bugs) would be a good outcome.
    * It might still be a good idea to batch close bugs, not on issue age though. Having a good classification system will be helpful in making the backlog manageable/navigable. 
* Decisions
  * none
     

Action items

- [ ] 