# Meeting Notes: August 29, 2025 

Attendees:       Warner Losh, Ed Maste, Greg Wallace, Mark Johnston, Alice Sowerby, Matheiu Arnold, John Baldwin

Notes
* Resourcing 
* Need to reduce the overall number of bugs
* Also process to keep on top of them as we get ca. 30 new per week. Foundation can help take pressure off srcmgr with funding. 
* Can we get contractors to help with this type of work? Especially: 
    * Progress tracking
    * Script/automation to find bugs with patches
* Need more than just one person to help
* Request from community/srcmgr
    * Someone to help drive short term goals
    * Direct contributions of others with more specific knowledge
* What is the capacity of the project to deal with bugs on an ongoing basis?
    * We would have to take a view on some things and just closing them according to some rubric e.g. is this progressible? 
* Triaging is already happening, maybe we could start to apply some analytics to these to better understand how we can improve efficiency of bug handling and what our ongoing policies need to be for incoming bugs.
    * Set of categories e.g. how easy to fix, who can fix.
    * Would require a cultural change, if we close things without looking at things we may get some pushback. So comms is helpful in managing this process, invite people to re-log if still a problem on v12+
    * Srcmgr and portmgr would be an authority to direct this
    * Currently bug triage is done biweekly. Could we do analysis retroactively? Maybe if filtered in the last 6 months, look in bugzilla and also source code (where we have annotations). Also GH PRs. 
    * Tooling is also included in the project scope, so we should be ready to include work to automate management of bugs. 
    * Mainly src not ports
    * Prefer not to have patches in bugzilla, do we need to change the culture to put them elsewhere? We had a tool that looked at incoming bugs and tried to apply patch if one was supplied. The idea was that it would determine if src/ports/docs, if src, figure out the branch, try to apply the patch, and comment on the PR with the error if the patch could not be applied. (mat: I don’t know if it was actually finished and working) 
    * How do we make the triage changes stick? 
        * Build more structure into bug management, make it more appealing. 
    * We can be creative about the way we do this: 
        * E.g. Can we do a bug-squash event? (Is that helpful?)
        * Can we renegotiate with STF about what order we do things in? E.g. Start with tooling and blunt bug closing, but also plan to do an engagement event at a conference like BSD Can. 
        * Every conference could include a bug party at the start. How else could be get people engaged (link to travel grant?)
        * Need bugs ready to squash. 
        * We have multiple places bugs and patches get submitted (bugzilla, phabricator, merge requests on gitlab, pull requests on github…) we could have a tool that for example, looks for new “stuff” on those tools, and add a bug in bugzilla, so we only have one place to look for stuff.
* Strategy
    * Analytics to gain better understanding
    * Cut down bug backlog using Time/version-based, authorised by srcmgr, portmgr.
    * Automate staging/testing of bugs.
    * Communications for users to set expectations. 
    * Process design/development to help create a sustainable triage culture. 
    * Next steps
        * Find someone who can do the analytics and bugs closing, automation of staging/testing. 
    * Timeline Sep-Jan

Action items

- [ ]  ask in CHAOSS if we can get some advice on how to analyze bugs
- [ ] Mark - do some live bug triage at Euro BSD con.
- [ ] Urgently need someone to do the analysis. 
- [ ] Everyone on call to review the JD before end of tomorrow. 
    - [ ] Do you know someone who can do that work? 
- [ ] to add the contract details (rate, #hours, #months) who to pass interested candidates to. 
    - [ ] Added but check with Deb/Joe/Ed regarding our convention around including rate - I don’t think we typically do that in the JD. 
- [ ] All look for someone, share JD. 
- [ ] Maybe a steering call? Every 2nd week at this time? Do it on rotation, alphabetically by last name.  
