
# Meeting Notes: September 26, 2024

Attendees: Joseph Mingrone, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Mathieu Arnold, John Baldwin.

Notes
 * Foundation update
    * We have appointed Bitergia and they have started work on the analytics (getting data).
        * Last we heard they said that they were able to get the data and no problems.
    * The August invoice was sent to STF. We have received feedback on the invoice and timesheets submitted. Alice has reformatted the timesheets and Abigail has approved the new format. Loren is working on the invoice changes. Alice needs to share the new timesheet and instructions with the contractors
    * We are due to begin meeting with Bitergia to review analytics next week (Mark J is away next week).
    * I have created a draft report for August work and have sent a copy to Abigail for feedback on structure only. 
* * Community update
    * Mark J held a bug squashing session at the DevSummit at EuroBSDcon last week. It seemed to go well, with good engagement.
    * Srcmgr@ has a biweekly call for 2h on Fridays. Triaging bugs normally. Would like to keep doing that as well as adding the Bug work. 
* Decisions
    * I propose we have an introductory call with Bitergia next week, even though Mark J will be away until Oct 7th. 
        * Yes, and invite invitees to this call
    * Should we start inviting Moin to these calls/Bitergia calls just to get him up to speed?
        * yes

Action items

- [ ] All contractors must complete the September timesheet by EOD Monday Sep 30th. 
- [ ] Alice & Loren will get approval from STF on new invoice format, and resubmit August. 