
# Meeting Notes: October 24, 2024

Attendees: Warner Losh, Mark Johnston, Anne Dickison, Ed Maste, Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Jason Perlow.


Notes

* Next week is our final week working with Bitergia. 
    * Moin is part way through migrating the dashboards to FreeBSD hosting. Their hosting ends Oct 31 (next Thu), so we need to make a decision on whether to ask for more hosting time from them or accept a period of downtime on the dashboard.
        * Moin should be able to get a self-hosted version available within a week or two of Oct 31. 
        * For bugathon, would be better to have the dashboard, though bugzilla will do at a pinch. 
        * Moin can put up a temporary dashboard instance on Linux if needed. 
    * Bitergia has provided an update on the dashboards, full documentation and videos to follow. 
    * Please also attend the dashboard Q&A call next Wednesday if you are able. 

Dashboards:

    ## Characterization #1 - Overview


    This dashboard offers an overview of the Bugs submitted for all the Products in the selected period, detailing the amount of activity coming from each Product.


    ## Characterization #2 - Backlog Growth


    This dashboard focuses on efficiency in closing bugs in the selected time frame. The Evolution of the Backlog shows how the backlog has changed during the selected time frame, while the BMI (Backlog Management Index) measures efficiency in closing issues. The Bugzilla index does not contain the closing date of the Bugs, so the values are approximated using the date of the last comment in "Closed" bugs.


    ## Characterization #3 - Open Bugs: Attention times


    This dashboard provides a breakdown of the open Bugs submitted during the selected period, focusing on "Unattended" and "Abandoned" Bugs. A Bug will appear as "Unattended" when it does not receive any comment from a user different from the author who created it. A bug will appear as "Abandoned" when there were other comments, but the last comment was made more than 3 months ago.


    ## Characterization #4 - Open Bugs Needing Attention


    Dashboard focused on the Open Bugs needing more attention, submitted during the selected period. A Bug will appear as "Unattended" when it does not receive any comment from a user different from the author who created it. A bug will appear as "Abandoned" when there were other comments, but the last comment was made more than 3 months ago. By default, Bugs with severity "Affects Only Me" are excluded.


    Characterization #5 - Enhanced Bug List

    This dashboard offers an enhanced version of the [bug list from Bugzilla](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla//buglist.cgi?bug_status=__open__&no_redirect=1&order=Importance&query_format=specific), showing the list of Bugs submitted during the selected period. The results are limited to 2,000, in descending order by their creation date. The "Filters" widget on the left can be used to narrow down the search. Another way to reduce the number of results is to select a smaller time frame.

* Completing Work Package A. 
    * This Work Package is scheduled to run until the end of December 2024
    * Our contract states that our deliverable are:
        * Perform bug triage and remediation.
            * Using the dashboard/tooling to help produce more targeted lists of bugs to triage in public sessions e.g. all kernel panic >5y old
            * At least one session before the end of 2024.
            * Mark Linimon already arranges something similar in Discord. Perhaps we could collaborate on this? Perhaps informal on the weekend. Moin could ask Mark Linamon
        * Document patches and fixes.
            * Would be an outcome of the bugathons.
        * Develop a comprehensive issue management program.
            * Policy for bug triage to help people do that independently, and communicate process and best practices.
            * Bugathons regularly would also be a part of this.
        * Assess and implement issue management tools and technologies.
            * May want to add (Bugzilla, GrimoireLab) more tags/labels for subcomponents. 
    * Moin is available 96h in each Nov and Dec (equivalent of 60% FTE) to help with anything needed to achieve the deliverables above. 
* Looking ahead to Work Packages B-E in 2025
    * **Work Package B: **Jan- Aug 2025 “zero-trust builds”
        * Extend the current components to enable the project to build release artifacts (package sets, ISO images, etc.) without requiring any special privilege.
        * Stakeholders: srcmgr@, RE@
    * **Work Package C:** Jan - Jul 2025
        * Modernize and securitize the existing CI/CD system and extend it to cover the third party packages in the FreeBSD Ports Collection.
        * Stakeholders: srcmgr@, portmgr@
    * **Work Package D:** Mar - Jul 2025
        * Migrate from our VuXML Vulnerability Database to OSV.
        * Develop a package audit backend and server to reliably fetch vulnerability data from
        * global agency databases in any format (JSON - NIST) and produce insight.
        * Improve CI tooling for FreeBSD Ports.
        * Stakeholders: secteam@, portsmgr@
    * **Work Package E:** Apr - Sep 2025 “SBOMs”
        * Implement tooling to roll up the individual provenance data/markers from across the tree into a higher-level view.
        * Develop tooling to parse/review/inspect the FreeBSD source tree and produce a comprehensive/holistic report to act as a SBOM for the full software stack.
        * Extend pkg to enable this capability for software installed from ports/packages.

                Note: The Contractor shall release the results of its services as a new version of the OSC under the same open-source licence agreement under which the OSC was published when the contract was concluded.

* Stakeholders: srcmgr@ (esp Warner), Foundation
* We would like to collaborate with srcmgr@ to unpack these work items so we can develop project plans to deliver the best outcomes for FreeBSD, its contributors, and its users. 
* If you are open to this approach Alice will set up some documents for async collaboration, as well as booking in some calls for discussion in November.
  

Action items

- [x] What is the situation with followup questions after Oct 31?