# Jul 10, 2025

Attendees:  Joseph Mingrone Alice Sowerby Moin Rahman  Siva Mahadevan Ed Maste

Notes

* Updates from attendees.  
  * Alice  
    * Preparing for the Panel discussion for Open Source Summit EU August in Amsterdam by creating a script based on the podcast we did earlier in the year.   
  * Moin  
    * Nothing directly on the WP  
    * Licensing framework may not be ready for the SBOM for Ports tree.   
      * Would like input from Ed, Tuukka. Moin will attend the WPE call to raise the issue.   
  * [Mark Linimon](mailto:linimon@freebsd.org)  
    * Uptick in requests in bugzilla accounts? Could this be GSoC?  
      * Itâ€™s a little hard to tell.  Before March we enabled people to automatically make their own accounts.  But due to spam, we switched to having to approve them manually.  Nevertheless, we do see significant interest in people wanting accounts (3-5 per day on average.  
    * Bug busting events?  
      * Mark Linimon has held them on most Mondays recently, for an hour long apiece.  He will have to move them away from that day due to conflicting events.  They are now advertised in advance which hopefully will improve attendance.  
  * Mark Johnston  
    * There is usually an email to [developers@freebsd.org](mailto:developers@freebsd.org). Nothing announced since May.

Action items

- [x] ~~Ask ed about upgrade for Grimoirelab (10-12h)~~
