# Jun 3, 2025

Attendees:  Ed Maste  Alice Sowerby  Moin Rahman Mark Phillips Mark Linimon Siva Mahadevan Joseph Mingrone

Notes

* Delete attendees not present in list ^  
* Updates from attendees.  
  * Alice  
    * The panel discussion Open Source Summit about the GrimoireLab dashboard.   
  * Moin  
    * Nothing particular to update. Will be attending a hackathon in Berlin on July 12/13 and may do a ports bugbusting session there. Also proposed fixing the licensing framework of ports tree as it’s not SPDX compliant currently (this will align to the SBOM).  
    * Mark J ran a Src mgr bug busting (23rd May). Around 14 people attended. 3h session.   
  * Mark L   
    * Not so much in May due to external factors.   
    * Bugzilla was upgraded recently to 5.2, but not working  
    * Patch applying mechanism may have to be rolled back (“patchQA” was created to auto-apply patches if you give it the patch number. It does not tolerate fuzz in the patch number). The patch download part works, but not the patch application. Still in “beta”.  
    * ML is running 1h bugbusting on Discord on Mondays. 5 weeks in a row so far (1st was a false start). Working on establishing a cadence, variable levels of engagement due to some technical/scheduling issues.   
* Improving support for community bugbusting, bug triaging.   
  * Ideas from last time (Ed) included aligning bug management with Gleb’s Stabweek (taking what Netflix was doing internally and make it a community effort).  
  * Stabweek is run in the last week of each month. Current is tested by everyone attending and any regressions are fixed within the week and the code thaw email sent by Gleb (happy path).  
  * How could aligning more general bug management provide benefit to Stabweek and vice versa?  
    * Srcmgr advised not much value in aligning their bug triage with stabweek. 
