# Mar 13, 2025

Attendees: Joseph Mingrone Ed Maste Alice Sowerby Anne Dickison Moin Rahman  Mark Linimon

Notes

* Delete attendees not present in list ^  
* Updates  
  * Moin  
    * Nothing this time around  
    * The PR to GrimoireLab is not yet merged.   
  * Mark J  
    * (Ed) No bugbusting event planned, but intended to be done monthly. He is away this month.   
  * Mark L (Mark not present). 

    * Triaging removed components  
    * Bugzilla REST API; evaluation of inline patches  
    * Bugzilla REST API  
    * FreeBSD 10 triage (unbilled)  
    * Fixing patch paths  
    * FreeBSD 10 triage (unbilled)  
    * Bugzilla REST API (now called patchQA.py)  
    * PRs with multiple attachments  
    * whether to skip In Progress PRs  
    * ports directories and thus new-ports  
    * analyzing the 2024+ PRs (all)  
    * more PR analysis  
    * more PR rebase; created patchQA README  
    * conf/ and doc/ PRs; prepare patchQA for upload  
    * 2023-2024 PRs; release patchQA onto github  
* Marketing  
  * Mark P is working on another blog about the podcast. Podcast has also been cross-promoted (FreeBSD Project’s news items)   
* Handover  
  * The project will end around August. What would the FreeBSD Project need from the Foundation ensure a sustainable handover?  
    * GrimoireLab  
      * Maintenance (updates). These come in from time to time, and can require 8-10h of work.   
        * It would be a cluster admin job. It is already documented. This has not yet been discussed with them. They are short staffed and overloaded. Aim for a quarterly update schedule.   
      * Edits to the dashboard functionality.   
        * Would like to add GH repo data (perhaps we can do this within the hours left in the project)  
        * Configuring the dashboards can be done by anyone using GL documentation.  
    * Bugzilla updates don’t need a handover as Linimon would do it as a volunteer in future.   
    * Other?  
* 

Action items

- [x] ~~Alice to ask someone to merge the PR for GL.~~   
- [ ] Moin to add updating GL quarterly to the CA process. 