# May 8, 2025

Attendees: Joseph Mingrone Ed Maste  Alice Sowerby Moin Rahman Mark Linimon

Notes

* Delete attendees not present in list ^  
* Updates  
  * Bugzilla patches if relevant   
    * Mark L is still applying FreeBSD patches stuck in Bugzilla, we don’t know about an upgrade/patches to Bugzilla itself.  
    * Moin had been asked by Mark to help in clusteradm to deploy the new Bugzilla instance. Whether it’s actually installed we don’t know.    
  * GrimoireLab updates if relevant  
    * Nothing updated since last time. There has been a new release. Srcmgr need to give approval to upgrade the host (we don’t know when they may be using it).   
  * Bugbusting sessions \- any planned?  
    * Mark J was aiming for April but it didn’t happen. Hoping to get one for May 23rd.  
    * Could we help to make it easier to plan and manage? E.g. a standing/repeating meeting that anyone who joins could help. Gleb’s stabweek could roll into it? Ed mentioning this to srcmgr.  
  * We had a discussion about filtering out “noise” i.e. non-bugs from ports/packages tickets in Bugzilla.  
    * “Bugs” can sometimes be raised by ports developers for the purpose of patch conveyance, as there is a “timeout” on Bugzilla (after 2 weeks’ waiting they can merge), and for content, they use a link to Phabricator.  Unclear how we could cleanly filter these out.   
    * And some are raised in ports instead of upstream.   
    * Additionally, there is a big discussion in Ports mailing list about how bugs are raised. There are a lot of bugs because many bugs cannot be reproduced locally by other ports developers/committers and therefore they cannot get resolved. This also means that any discussions about these bugs can be fruitless. If people were to test on Poudriere they would be using an emulation of a pristine environment. We do not currently insist that all bugs are proven in Poudriere first.