# Apr 10, 2025

Attendees: Joseph Mingrone Ed Maste  Alice Sowerby Moin Rahman   Mark Linimon  Mark Phillips

Notes

* Delete attendees not present in list ^  
* Review the dashboards \- how are they working for you? [https://grimoire.freebsd.org/](https://grimoire.freebsd.org/)   
  * Note from last call: Would like to add GH repo data (perhaps we can do this within the hours left in the project).  
  * BMI graph and backlog seem useful.   
  * Mark L looks at bugzilla reports (not the dashboard). It shows what has been closed and what opened. Not really needing to see the overall backlog/trends. A lot of new bugs coming in from Ports updates.   
  * Source Manager meetings?   
    * Not really used in the bugbusting sessions or the regular srcmgr meetings.   
    * Although Ed’s not been able to attend.   
  * Does this mean that the dashboards are still useful?  
    * They do show useful insights. But resourcing is constrained.   
    * Time each month updating   
      * March \= 0h  
      * April \= upgrade host in cluster \+ upgrade GL \= 10-12h  
* How are the bugbusting events developing? Is there more that the Foundation can do to help?  
  * Mark L would like to pick up general bugbusting events again.   
    * Ports & Docs (docs mostly work in Phabricator) (Mark L)  
    * Src (Mark J)  
  * Mark J was out for much of March, hence no event. Aiming to get one in last week of April.   
* Updates  
  * Moin   
    * Action from last call: Moin to add “updating GL quarterly” to the Cluster Admin documented process.  
  * Mark J  
  * Mark L  
    * Has been evaluating tools to get Bugzilla patches to be applied automatically.   
      * Preferred upstream tool has bugs. Too fragile, can’t be fixed trivially. Will need to switch this out for another method.  
      * Some changes to the code that manages incoming patches to make it more robust.  
      * Some patches still can’t be applied as they are for upstream, not FreeBSD. Part way through making changes to apply these patches.  