# Jan 16, 2025 

Invitees: Alice Sowerby, Ed Maste, Joe Mingrone, Warner Losh, John Baldwin, Mathieu Arnold, Moin Rahman, Anne Dickison, Mark Johnston, Jason Perlow.  

Attendees: Alice Sowerby, Mark Linimon, Moin Rahman, Ed Maste, Joe Mingrone, Anne Dickison, Mark Johnston.

Notes

* Delete attendees not present in list ^  
* Update: Mark Linimon’s work on bug remediation for Jan/Feb  
  * Tackling 2 unmaintained jails. Make sure that changes in Bugzilla are in the main repo, and updating to Bugzilla 5.0.4.1 version which includes some security fixes.   
  * Create test instance \- from scratch jail with deployment of bugzilla 5.2 (newer).   
  * Also updating Postgres version which is a dependency. Clusteradm will need to help.    
  * Update how we present the state of PRs so that developers can know when to engage (design and review a proposal).   
* Update: Mark Johnston’s work on bug triage events.  
  * The next one is this Friday, Jan 17\.  
  * Looking at whether groups/categories of bugs can be created to assist.   
  * Mark J is testing out some features for a FreeBSD hosted/self-hosted video call.   
  * The FreeBSD Discord is now self-moderating. There are also some regular “how to bug squash” sessions on there by Alex and Mark L.   
  * Perhaps drop a link (to a live session) into Discord to run a session? Or use Discord’s own video capabilities.  
  * Consider other bugs outside base system.  
* Update: any other updates?  
* Discuss: The CHAOSS podcast is likely to do an episode with Thunderbird about [their adoption of GrimoireLab](https://blog.thunderbird.net/2024/12/visualizing-the-thunderbird-community-with-bitergia/) (I will be hosting it). There is an opportunity to record another episode with FreeBSD having one or two people from FreeBSD as a guest (and perhaps one more person, from Bitergia). Mark J prefers not to be a guest, does anyone else have an interest?  
  * Would be nice to talk about GL being hosted on FreeBSD.  
* Discuss: (for Moin) Documenting how to host GrimoireLab on FreeBSD. Does this exist already? Is it a useful community resource (for CHAOSS as well as FreeBSD)?  
  * Moin has a private wiki page for now. But if everyone agrees he will be happy to make it public after some refactoring.  
  * Maybe upstream to the GL project if approved by srcmgr. 
