# Jan 30, 2025

Invitees: Alice Sowerby, Ed Maste, Joe Mingrone, Warner Losh, John Baldwin, Mathieu Arnold, Moin Rahman, Anne Dickison, Mark Johnston, Jason Perlow.

Attendees: Alice Sowerby, Moin Rahman, Anne Dickison, Ed Maste, Joe Mingrone.

Notes

* Delete attendees not present in list ^  
* Please plan in some time to complete before EOD next Wednesday, (5th February 2025), as we have a new deadline for STA\!  
* Update: Mark Linimon’s work on bug remediation for Jan/Feb  
  * Upgrading Bugzilla to a supported release. Closing issues for older, obsolete releases.   
* Update: Mark Johnston’s work on bug triage events.  
  * Latest one (Jan 17\) fewer attendees, not too sure why, probably just settling, or curious people at the first one maybe had their curiosity satisfied.  
  * Maybe look to open up the next ones to include the Discord community and expand more over time. Format is still developing.   
  * How often? Monthly  
  * Next one? Not planned yet  
  * srcmgr@ working on bi-weekly triaging.   
* Update: Moin   
  * (Documenting how to host GrimoireLab on FreeBSD?). I am nearly done with it, but I will need to do a full final test of the documentation again, which I plan to do next week. Should we contribute this to the Grimoirelab Community (GH, etc.) or as a Wiki page?  
  * Upgrading Grimoirelab instance.   
* Update: We recorded the podcast for CHAOSS yesterday \- it went really well\! Thanks to Ed and Moin for agreeing to speak on it.   
  * Hope to publish it next Thursday.  
* Any other updates?

Action items

- [ ] Moin please let Alice know when the instructions are in GH upstream.
